## siem configuration ##
starting to get to some of the more important chapters!
1.1 1.3
### Security Information Event Management System / SIEM ###
we all LOVE log review on everyone's soul :ppp <br><br>

__SIEM:__ log aggretation system that provides real-time / near-real-time analysis of security alerts generated by network hardware and applications <br>
correlating events --> SIEM are WWW! <br>

SIEMS can be done with many different tools ... but heres the baseline of what they need/want <br>
- filter of important v non-important data/logs
- established and documented scope of events
- develop uses cases for defining a threat
- planned incident responses for different event (playbook)
- establish a ticketing process to track real-time events
- schelude regular threat hunting
- providing auditors and analysis an evidence trail

__Splunk:__ market-leading big data information gathering and analysis tool that can import machine-generated data via a connector or visibility add-on.can be either a local or cloud-based solution. <br>
__ELK / Elastic Stack:__ collection of free open source SIEM tools that provides storage, search, and analysis functions. <br>
- elastic search (search / querying)
- logstash (collection + organization)
- kibana (visualization)
- beats (endpoint agents)
__ArcSight:__ SIEM log management and analytics software that can be used for compliance reporting for legislation and regulations like HIPPA, SOX, and PCI DSS. <br>
__QRadar:__ SIEM tool made by IBM <br>
__AlienVault and OSSIM / Open-Source Security Information Management:__ SIEM solution originally developed by AlienVault, now owned by AT&T <br>
__Graylog:__ Open-source SIEM wiht an enterprise version focused on compliance and supporting IT operations and DevOps. (NCAE!!!!) <br>

### Security Data Collection ###
intelligence loses value over time! <br>
requirements --> __collection and processing__ --> analysis --> dissemintion --> feedback <-->     <br>

what do you want to collect! (dont be a damn hoarder!!!) <br>
consider false negatives and false postives <br>

__Use Case:__ a specific condition that should be reported, like a suspicious log-on, or process running from a temporary directory. <br>
the FIVE W's are like always important for like everything, including IR! <br>

### Data Normalization ###
data needs to be normalization before it can become readable in a SIEM! <br>

__Normalization:__ process of which data is reformatted or structured to facilitate the scanning and analysis process. <br>
SIEMS collect data from: <br>
__Connectors or Plug-ins:__ a piece of software designed to provide parsing and normalization functions to a particular SIEM. <br>
- HIDS / HIPS / EDRS
- Agents
- Syslog / SNMP (Listener)
- IDS / IPS
- Different Servers (SMTP, DB, ...)
- SPAN / TAP ports (Sensers)

ONE BIG THING IVE NEVER THOUGHT ABOUT ... TIME SYNCHRONIZATION for SIEMS!!! <br>
--> UTC <br>

Secure logging is SOOOOO important! <br>

### Event Log ###
__Event Logs:__ logs created by your operating system on each client/server to record how users and software interact with the system. <br>
we LOVE windows event view :p <br>

five different catagories: <br>
1. Application: deals with events generated by applications and services! 
2. Security: deals with failed-log ons, access denied, registry changes!
3. System: events generated by the OS and its OS-services
4. Setup: events generated during windows installation
5. Forwarded Events: events sent to the local host from OTHER computers
four categories: <br>
Information, Warning , Errors, Audit Success/Failure <br>

Modern Windows system allows event subscription to forward ALL events to a single host in XML format (.evtx) <br>
### Syslog ###
Linux / Mac Event Viewer (tcp/udp 514) <br>

__Syslog:__ a protocol for enabling different appliances and software applications to transmit logs or event records to a central server (karl be like). <br>

EVERYTHING can use syslog :P <br>
priority code evaluated in syslog --> PRI code <br>

choosing between UDP and TCP with syslog used to be trivial, but now, the need to capture all the logs generated, consistency is most important! newer syslog uses port 1468 for TCP. as well, it uses TLS to encrypt messages to protect data in transit + use SHA-1 for authentication and integrity! <br>

__syslog-ng / rsyslog !!__ <br>
