## siem analysis ##
1.3 4.1 - important chapter!
### SIEM Dashboard ###
cysa usually work in SOC or CSRIT:
- perform alert triage
- review security data sources
- review cyber threat intelligence
- perform vulnerability scanning
- identify opportunities for threat hunting

dashboards will show ur network data + visualizations of it! <br>

__Key Performance Indicators / KPI's:__ A quantifiable measure used to evaluate the success of an organization, employee, or other elements in meeting objectives for performance. <br>
- average response time
- ticket response time
- network bandwidth

### Analysis and Detection ###
analyst need to dismiss false from true positives! <br>

_Conditional_: simple form of correlational performed by a machine using signature and rule-based detection. <br>
ex: IF x AND (y OR z) <br>

can create a large amount of false positives + prone to TTPs and zero days. <br>

_Heuristic_: method that uses feature comparison and likeness rather to sig and rule base detection. <br>
--> utilizes machine learning on similiar looking behavior. overtime, they get better! <br>

_Behavioral_: network monitoring system that detects behavior changes in network traffic (port usage, bandwidth ...) <br>
--> needs to learn and be trained over time to understand network baseline. (specific) <br>

_Anomaly_: network monitoring system that uses a baseline of network, and generates an alert on anything that doesnt confirm to the regular standards. (prescribed)<br>

### Trend Analysis ###
__Trend Analysis:__ the process of detecting patterns within a data set over time, and using those patterns to make predicts about future events or to better understand past events. <br>
- Frequency: baseline metrics, monitor those over time!
- Volume: measure the size of metric (log file size ..)
- Statistical Deviatation: mean/std to see if there is issues


### Rule and Query Writing ###
__correlation:__ interpretation of the relationship between individual data points to diagnose incidents of significance. <br>

correlation rules requires data in memory as persistent state data! <br>

__SIEM QUERY:__ extracts records from among all the data stored for review or to show as a visualization. <br>

correlation rules will file an alert immediately as long as it exists, but a SIEM query will only create an alert once the query is ran. <br>

think SQL + regex -->   SELECT FROM SORT BY ... 
### Searching and Piping Commands ###
we ALL love piping >:) <br>

__regex:__ group of characters that describe how to execute a specific search pattern on a given text. <br>

WILL NEED TO KNOW SOME FOR THE EXAM! <br>

[...] --> match single instance of char in brackets ... a-z 0-9 A-Z \s \d  <br>

\+ --> match one or more occurences <br>
\* --> match zero or more occurences <br>
? --> match one or none times <br>
{} --> match number of occurences    {3}   {7-10} <br>
(...) --> defines a matching group in a regex sequence incremented by digits <br>

| --> or <br>
^ --> match with stuff begginning at a line <br>
\$ --> match at the end of the line <br>

to touch up skills! --> regex (both goat karl and dion certified) <br>

_grep_ --> string matching <br>
_find_ + _findstr_ --> windows version for string matching tool. <br>
_cut_ --> enables ueser to specify text removal in lines from resulting text. <br>
_sort_ --> coomand that can be used to change output order <br>
_head_ --> command that outputs the first 10 lines of a file <br>
_tail_ --> command that follows end of stream <br>
- -i ignore case 
- -v return non-matching
- -w match whole words
- -c return count of matched lines
- -l return name of files with matching
- -L return name of files without matching
- -r search through directories recursively

### Scripting Tools ###
__script:__ list of commands executed by a program/scripting engine <br>

for this exam, its not necessary to know scripting languages like perl, python, ruby, ps, or bash, but for the future, exams like pentest+ and up may require more in depth knowlegde. <br>

__WMIC / Windows Management Instrumentation Command-Line:__ program used to review log files on a remote windows machine <br>

__AWK:__ scripting engine geared towards modifying and extracting data from files or data streams in Unix, Linux, and macOS systems.<br>


### Analysis, Filtering, and Searching Logs ###