## dig forensics!!! ##
prob my fav section in the whole course me love forensics! <br>
1.3 3.2 <br>
LONG AH SECTION! <br>

### digital forensics analyst ###
whats the role of a DFA?

__digitial forensics:__ process of gathering and submitting computer evidence to trial and interpreting that evidence by providing expert analysis. <br>

DFA's can work as expert witness when it comes to presenting digitial evidence. they can also help plan it systems and processes to prep for data reconstruction. they can also help in incident reconstruction and criminal investigations, collect and protect evidence, and determine if data has been breach. <br>

### forensics procedures ###
4 STEP PROCESS! its important to follow written procedures to ensure that forensics data is handled properly, and in compliance with regulations. (this literally frsc202) <br>

_Identification:_ ensure that the scene is safe and secure to prevent evidence contamination and identify the scope of evidence 
_Collection:_ ensure authorization to collect evidence is obtained, and then document and prove the integrity of the evidence as it is collected. <br>
_Analysis:_ create a copy of the evidence for analysis and use repeatable methods and tools during analysis. <br>
_Reporting:_ create a report of the mthods and tools used in the investigation and present detailed findings and conclusions based on the analysis <br>

__Legal Hold:__ process designed to preserve all relevant information when litigation is reasonably expected to occur. <br>

### work product retention ###
__work product retention:__ contractual method of retaining forensics investigators to protect their analysis from disclosure by the work product doctrine. <br>

### data acquisition ###
yummers <br>

__data acquisition:__ method and tools used to create a forensically sound copy of data from a source device, such as system memory or a hard disk. <br>

...of note --> BYOD policies in a work place may limit/complicate data acquisitions for endpoint devices, because you may not be able to legally search or seize the device. <br>

!!! analysts should ALWAYS follow the order of volatility when collecting evidence !!! (think back to cs332 and other studies) <br>

CPU Registers + Cache Memory --> System Memory, routing tables, arp cahce, process tables, temp swap files --> persistent mass storage (HDD/SDD/flash drive) --> remote logging and monitoring data --> physical configuration and network topology --> archival media (backup tapes ...)<br>

### forensics tools ###
__Digitial Forensics Kit:__ kit containing the software and hardware tools required to acquire evidence from system memory dumps and mass storage file systems. <br>

EnCase - FTK - The Sleuth Kit !!! <br>

_EnCase:_ digitial forensics case management product created by Guidance Software with built-in pathways and workflow templates that show key steps in many types of investigations. <br>
_FTKImager:_ digitial forensics investigation suite by AccessData that runs on windows servers or server clusters for faster searching and analysis due to data indexing when importing evidence. <br>
_The Sleuth Kit:_ Open-source digitial forensics collection of command line tools and programming libraries for disk imaging and file analysis that interfaces with Autopsy (my goat) as a front-end GUI. <br>

REMEMBER! data analyst needs to be done ON COPIES of the source image. source must be remained untouched. <br>
### memory acquisition ###

__System Memory Image Acquisition:__ process that creates an image file of the system memory that can be analyzed to identify the processes that are running, the contents of temporary file systems, registry data, network connections, cryptographic keys, and more. <br>
- _Live Acquisition_: capturing the contents of memory while the computer is running using a specialist hardware or software tool. (need to be preinstall with kernal level access)
- _Crash Dump_: the contents of memory are written to a dump file when Windows encounters an unrecoverable kernal error. results usually come in a mini dump file bc mem is kinda big today.
- _Hibernation File:_ file that is written to the disk when the workstation is put into a sleep state.
- _Pagefile:_ file that stores pages of memory in use that exceed the capacity of the host's physical RAM modules! (CS332 anyone!?)

### disk image acquisition ###

__Disk Image Acquisition:__ process that creates an image file (.iso) of the system's disks that can analyzed to identify current, deleted, and hidden files on a given disk. <br>
- _Live Acquisition:_ capturing the contents of the disk drive while the computer is still running. good for keeping access to data in unencrypted state, but could be changed whilst acquisition is happening. 
- _Static Acquisition by shutting down:_ the computer is properly shut down through the operating system and then the disk is acquired. some malware can detect this shutdown, and can perform anti-forensic techniques. 
- _Static Acquisition by pulling the plug:_ the system's power is disconnected by removing the power plug from the wall socket. can stop anti-foren techniques, but also can corrupt some data. 

__Physical Acquisition:__ bit-by-bit copy of a disk that includes every non-bad sector on the target disk including deleted or hidden data. <br>
__Logical Acquisition:__ copies files and folders from partitions using the file system table stored on the media <br>   (faster, but some files will be missed, like files deleted)

when files are deleted, they are not actually removed from storage yet, but instead, the pointer to the actual data is removed, so until that data gets re-written, the data is still recoverable. <br>

__Write Blocker:__ forensic tool to prevent the capture or analysis device or workstation from changing data on a target disk or media. <br>
__Imaging Utilities:__ software utility that conducts the disk imaging of a target. <br>
__dd:__ unix/linux/macOS command that can perform disk image acquisition<br>

### hashing ###
important topic to review! :P <br>

hash = digitial fingerprint        hash collision in forensics == bad!           
__hash:__ a function that converts an arbitrary length string input to a fixed length string output (one-way) <br>

SHA-2 >> SHA1 >>> MD5 <br>
_certutil:_ built-in windows command where a file and alg is given, and a hash digest is created <br>
_FCIV_, _md5sum_,_sha1sum_ ... <br>

hashing proves file integrity of the operating system and application files!! <br>

__FIM / File Integrity Monitoring:__ type of software that reviews system files to ensure that they have not been tampered with <br>

### timeline generation ###
big portion of the investigation is to find the _needle_ in the haystack --> good reporting is neccesary! <br>

__Timeline:__ a tool that shows the sequence of file system events within a source image in a graphical format. <br>

many forensics tools can create these timelines!! important to explain your work at the stand! <br>
### carving ###
how to extract data that has been "deleted" <br>

HDD's and SSDs are divided into sectors. <br>

__Block/Cluster:__ the smallest unit the file system can address (default is 4096 bytes) <br>
__MFT / Master File Table:__ table that contains metadata with the location of each file in terms of blocks/clusters for disks formatted as NTFS. <br>

__File Carving:__ the process of extracting data from a computer when that data has no associated file system metadata. <br>
--> this attempts to atleast piece together data fragemnts from that unallocated space to reconstruct deleted files! <br>

_Scalpel:_ an open-source cmd tool that is part of the sleuth kit that is used to conduct file carving on linux and windows systems. <br>

### chain of custody ###
refresher for frsc202!! <br>

__Chain of Custody:__ the record of evidence history from collection, to presentation in court, to disposal. MUST BE PRESERVED AT ALL COSTS <br>