## Network Indicators of Compromise ##
IoC's make up a bulk of the course! 
### Analyzing Network IoC's ###
__Indicator of Compromise / IoC :__ sign that an asset or network has been attacked or is currently under attack. <br>
ex: port sweeps/scans, non-standard port usage, covert channels, unrecognized devices ... 

### Traffic Spikes ###
a classic "potential" IoC in my humble opinion! <br>

__Traffic Spike:__ sharp increase in connection requests in comparison with a given baseline. <br>
Traffic Spike --> sign of DoS or DDoS!! <br>
excessive number of TIME_WAIT / SYN / HTTP 503 connections --> sign of DoS or DDoS <br>

even the most well-developed networks can be susceptable to DDoS attacks! <br>
how to measure a DDoS attack --> network bandwidth consumption! <br>

__Distributed Reflection Denial of Services / DRDoS:__ network-based attack where the attacker dramatically increases the bandwidth sent to a victim during a DDoS attack by implementing an amplification factor. <br>
ex: TCP handshake waiting, ICMP requests, bogus DNS queries ... small for the user to send, big for victim to respond <br>

__Slashdot Effect:__ causes a website to crash when a smaller website becomes popular quickly due to exposure from bigger website/social media/sharing platform. <br>
### Beaconing ###
minecraft...?<br>

__beaconing:__ a means for a network node to advertise its presence and establish a link with other nodes. <br>
--> not ALWAYs malicious, but most cases, ya! NTP, auto updates, wireless beacons ... <br>

recall previous ideas discussed before like DGA and fast flux DNS make it hard to see on the network <br>

__jitter:__ use of a random delay to frustrate indicators based on regular connection attempt intervals

beacon --> c2 commands (IRC, HTTP/HTTPS, Social Media, DNS connections)<br>

c2 command methods include, but are not limited too... : <br>
- __IRC:__ group communication protocol with networks divided into discrete channels that the individual forums used by clients to chat <br>
- __HTTP/S:__ encapsulating c2 commands over webprotocols! mitigate by using a intercepting proxy at the networks edge, which means HTTPS traffic can be analyzed.
- __DNS:__ effect bc it doesnt need a direct connection to outside network --> inside it can use a local DNS resolver.
    - mitigations? look for several of the same DNS queries occuring, normal network activity will query once or twice, and then cache the info for a few days, but if you see many queries being repeated, it could be the sign of a bot checking for orders from C2.
- __Social Media:__ allows malicious users to "live off the land" and utilize already available tools and mask as regular network traffic
- __Cloud Services:__ dont have to create their own C2 servers, can rent from big bois like google aws and azure
- __Metadata:__ think about all the pro's of average stego --> not really looking for it yk? 

### Irregular P2P Communications ###
in most networks, the main type of user traffic is client to server. <br>

__Irregular P2P Communications:__ attack indicator where hosts within a network establish connections over unauthorized ports or data transfers. <br>

video covers example done with SMB block (eternal blueeeee) <br>

seeing client TO CLIENT traffic is usually HIGHLY IRREGULAR, so keep that in mind when hunting for IoC's <br>

__ARP Spoofing / Poisoning:__ Occurs when an attacker redirects an IP address to a MAC address that was not its intended destination. <br>
### Rogue Devices ###
me when rogue ... grrrrrr <br>

__Rogue Devices:__ an unauthorized device or service on a corporate or private network that allows unauthorized individuals to connect to that network. this includes: <br>
- Network Taps
- WAP
- Servers
- Wired/wireless endpoints
- Software
- Virtual Machines
- Smart Appliances

### Scans and Sweeps ###
nmap be like :p. often rogue devices first will attempt to do a network sweep and search for other host and vulnerabilities in the network. <br>

__port scan:__ enumerates the status of TCP and UDP ports on a target system using software tools. <br>
__fingerprinting:__ identifying the type and version of an operating system / server application by analyzing its responses to network scans <br>
__footprinting:__ phase of attack or penetration test in which the attacker or tester gathers information about the target before attacking it <br>
__sweep:__ a scan directed at multiple IP address to discover whether a host response to connection requests for specific ports. <br>

good intrusion detection systems can monitor and notice port sweeping traffic, can effectively mitigate it. <br>

port scans are PRETTY common == weak IoC's 

### Nonstandard Port Usage ###
__IANA / Internet Assigned Numbers Authority__ --> maintains list of well-known and registered TCP and UDP port mappings <br>

refresher ... : <br>

0 - 1024 --> well known ports <br>
1025 - 49151 --> registered port <br>
49152 - 65536 --> dynamic ports <br>

there is no definitive list of ports used by malware ... but if any open dynamic port is constantly open, it could be malicious traffic. <br>

__Non-standard Port:__ communicating TCP/IP application traffic like HTTP, FTP, and DNS over a port that is not the well-known/registered port established for that protocol. <br>

know your network setup though! you can use different ports for registered protocols purposely, so keep that in mind. <br>

_Netcat / nc:_ utility for reading and writing raw data over a network connection that is oftne used a remote shell listener. (RECALL NCAE!) <br>

### TCP Ports ###
PORTS TO KNOW FOR THE EXAM: <BR>

21 - FTP - transfer files, unecrypted by default <br>
22 - SSH/SFTP - Secure Shell <br>
23 - Telnet - Bad SSH <br>
25 - SMTP - simple mail protocol <br>
53 - DNS - domain name service <br>
80 - HTTP - hypertext protocol <br>
110 - POP3 - post office protocol v3, legacy mailbox access protocol <br>
111 - RPCBIND - maps remote procedure call services to port numbers in a UNIX-like environment <br>
135 - MSRPC - windows versions for RPC services <br>
139 - NETBIOS-SSN - netbios session service, supports windows file sharing with pre-Windows 2000 version <br>
143 - IMAP - internet map access protocol <br>
443 - HTTPS - secure hypertext protocol <br>
445 - MICROSOFT-DS - supports windows file sharing (SMB over TCP/IP) on current windows machines <br>
993 - IMAPS - secure version for IMAP <br>
995 - POP3S - secure version for POP3 (both are over SSL/TLS connection tunnel) <br>
1723 - PPTP - Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol - legacy VPN protocol with weak security <br>
3306 - MySQL - mysql database connection <br>
3389 - RDP - remote desktop protocol <br>
590 - VNC - Virtual Network Computing - like RDP but open-source and cross OS support <br>
8080 - HTTP-PROXY - HTTP Proxy Service / alternate port for HTTP <br>

need to know for the exam!!! <br>

### UDP Ports ###
buckle up kiddo :p <br>

53 - DNS - domain name system for dns queries <br>
68 - DHCPC - client port for DHCP    | 67 is server side port <br>
69 - TFTP - trivial file transfer protocol <br>
123 - NTP - network time portocol - used for time synchronization <br>
135 - MSRPC - RPC service advertiser for Windows <br>
137 - NETBIOS-NS - netbios name service, for legacy windows file sharing <br>
138 - NETBIOS-DGM - netbios datagram serivce <br>
139 - NETBIOS-SSN - same as TCP <br>
161 - SNMP - simple network management protocol (agent port) <br> 
162 - SNMP - simple network management protocol for management station receive trap messages <br>
445 - MICROSOFT-DS - same as TCP <br>
500 - ISAKMP - internet security association and key management protocol that is used to set up IPsec tunnels <br>
514 - syslog - server port for syslog daemon (server) (can be tcp) <br>
520 - RIP - routing information protocol <br>
631 - IPP - internet printing protocol <br>
1434 - Microsoft SQL Server <br>
1900 - UPNP - universal plug and play used for autoconfig for game consoles and other appliance <br>
4500 - NAT-T-IKE - used to set up IPsec traversal through a NAT gateway <br>

be WARY of 1900 / universal plug and play in corporate enviroments, potential malicious usage! <br>

### Data Exfiltration ###
__Data Exfiltration:__ the process by which an attack takes data stored inside the private network and extract it to an external network. <br>

IoC's of Data Exfiltration is SOMETHING YOU NEED TO BE ABLE TO SEE! <br>
- can be done HTTPS/S, DNS, overt channels, and encrypted tunnels.

### Covert Channels ###
__Covert Channels:__ communication path that allows data to be sent outside the network with alerting any intrusion detection or DLP countermeasures. <br>

IOC's similar to what has been talked about in the previous few sections <br>