## Analyzing Application IoC's! ##
fun one! 1.2
### Application-Related IoC's ###
application-behavior anomalies is usually one of the first breaches spotted in an attack <br>
this section will also cover forensics and analysis of malicious activities in containers and virtualized hardware. <br>
### Anomalous Activity ###
Looking at Bad Activity in: (Benign v Malicious) <br>
- Web Applications
- Databases
- DNS services 
- Remote Access servers

__Unexpected Outbound Communications__ :thumbs_down: --> Beaconing / C2 Traffic <br>
__Unexpected Output__ --> look for application displaying unformated errors not seen before --> can indicate the application was tampered with. <br>
__Service Defacement__ --> think hackivist type beat, gain control of service and visible altar it to leave a message <br>

\#DROP * TABLES <3; <br>
### Service Interruptions ###
service being interrupted --> not necessarily an IoC! <br>

__Failed Application Services:__ application interruption caused by a service failing to start or halting abruptly. <br>
- look for security services failing to work
- look for service failure because of excessive network traffic, potentially from DoS/DDoS

Task Manager, Cron, Get-Services, Services.msc, ps -aux, systemctl <br>

### Application Logs ###
Most important apps --> LOGS!

__DNS Event Logs:__ log of all events each time DNS server handles a DNS request. <br>
__HTTPS Access Log:__ log that contains http traffic that encountered an error or matches pre-defined rule. <br>
recall, 400 errors are user based, 500 errors are server side based. <br>
__User-Agent:__ identifer of the type of application making the request, such as the web-browser version or the client's operating system. <br>
__FTP Access Logs:__ logs containing FTP traffic, usually in W3C log format. <br>

### New Accounts ###
creating rogue accounts --> easy persistence! <br>

all account creation needs to be monitored! <br>

__Windows:__ <br>
Log User and Accounts, AD User and Computers, WMIC, and Powershell <br>
__Linux:__
who, w, rwho, failog <br>

_lastlog:_ retrieves the log-on history from the /var/log/lastlog file and displays the account name, the TTY, remote host, and the last time the user was logged on. <br>

### Virtualization Forensics ###
virtualization provides security challenges when it comes to monitor activity within them! <br>

__Procss/Memory Analysis__ <br>
_VM Introspection / VMI:_ tools installed into the hypervisor that retrieves pages of memory to make analysis possible. <br>
_Saved State Files:_ files that are written during virtual machine suspension. <br>

_Persistent Data Acquistition_ 
_File-carving-deleted VM disk images_

_Lost System Logs_ --> config virtual machines to log events to some type of remote log server!! <br>

### Mobile Forensics ###
In a enterprise enviroment, Mobile BYOD devices can be a HUGE issue! <br>

Faraday Bags == goated :O <br>

__Cellebrite:__ tool focuse on evidence extraction from smartphones and other mobile devices, including older feature phones, and from cloud data and metadata using a universal forensics extraction device (UFED). <br>