## Analyzing Lateral Movement and Pivoting Indicators of Compromise ##
very IMPORTANT in my opinion
### Lateral Movement and Pivoting ###
the goal of lateral movement is to see if there is a another vulnerability or issue that can lead to further progress in a network attack. <br>

__Lateral Movement:__ Technique to progessively move through a network to search for the key data and assets that are ultimately the target of an attack campaign. <br>

the KEY in identifying lateral movement is to spot irregular P2P communication!! <br>

__Pivoting:__ the use of one infected computer to attack a different computer/endpoint. <br>

### Pash the Hash ###
hooray i know this one! <br>

__Pass the Hash:__ Network-based attack where the attacker steals hashed user credentials and uses the hashed as-is version to authenticate on the network. possible in certain older network protocols of SMB and Kerberous!! <br>

pass the hash is great for elevating privileges. as long as sometime in past someone with higher priv logged on a machine, you can grab those hashed credentials. <br>

_Mimikatz_ <3

### Golden Ticket ###
another lovely AD attack <br>

_Golden Ticket:_ a kerberos ticket that can _grant_ other tickets in an AD enviroment. <br>

recall previous studies in kerberos! <br>

kerberos ticket-granting ticket should be changed FREQUENTLY! <br>

### Lateral Movement ###
any remote access protocol can be used to move from machine to machine! (RDP, SSH, Telnet ... )<br> 

strong password policy is a GOOD and EASY way to make lateral movement a bit harder... <br>

look into powershell empire! <br>

### Pivoting ###
performing attacks from a compromised point == pivoting!

__Port Forwarding:__ the attacker uses a host as a pivot and is then able to access one of its open TCP/IP ports to send traffic from this port to a port of a host on a different subnet. <br>