## Incident Response Preparation ##
domains 3 and 4!     3.3 and 4.2 <br>
big chapter! <br>
### Incident Response Phases ###
__Incident:__ the act of violating an explicit or implied security policy. <br>

_NIST / National Institute of Standards and Technology SP 800-61_

4 Phases of IR: <br>
- Preparation
- Detection and Analysis
- Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
- Post Incident Activity

_IMPORTANT!!!_ For Exam, Comptia uses there own IR model, in which step three is broken in two parts <br>
- Preparation: Make the systems we control resilient to attacks, hardening software/hardware, writing policies and procedures, and setting up confidential lines of communication. <br>
- Detection and Analysis: Point where determination of an incident occurs, in which if so, it is triaged, and relevant stakeholders are notified. <br>
- Containment: Limit the scope and magnitude of the incident by securing data and limiting impact to business operation and customer services. <br>
- Eradication and Recovery: Removal of the cause of the incident, and bring the system back to a secure baseline. <br>
- Post Incident Activity: analyze the incident and the response to identify whether procedures or systems could be improved. <br>

_Incident Response Team:_ key people to respond to any incident that meets the severity and priority thresholds set out by the incident response plan. <br>
IRM / Incident Response Manager --> Team Lead <br>
Security Analyst --> Detectives and Fixers <br>
Triage Analyst --> Filters of False Positives, Real Time monitoring <br>
Forensics Analyst --> Detectives of how intrusion happened <br>
Threat Researcher --> think like guy in the chair! <br>
Cross Functional Support --> HR, Management, Lawyer, PR ... <br>

_Computer Security Incident Response Team:_ serves the single point of contact for security incidents, typically within the Security Operations Center (SOC) or as part of an independent team. <br>

### Documenting Procedures ###
very important to have a playbook on what to do! <br>

incidentresponse.com/playbook <br>

_Call List:_ predefined list of IR contacts in hierarchical order for notification and escalation. <br>
### Data Criticality ###
data criticality helps us understand whats most important to the business! <br>

PII, High Value Assets, SPI (Sensitive Personal Information), PHI (Personal Health Information), Finanicial Information, Intelletical Property / IP. <br>

### Communication Plan ###
having an establishied communication plan is really important, especially when the time comes and a network is compromised. <br>

\# signal be like :p <br>

_Out-of-band Communication:_ signals that are sent between two parties that are sent via a path or method different from that of the primary communication of those two devices. <br>

having a defined procedure for when to call the big boys at 3am versus waiting until business hours start? <br>

### Reporting Requirements ###
__Reporting Requirements:__ notifications that must be sent out to affected parties in the event of a data breach, as required by legislation/regulation. <br>

### Response Coordination ###
thinking supply chain / affected stakeholders is very important when thinking about potential incidents within your organization <br>

### Business Continuity Plan / BCP ###
__BCP:__ Plan and processes used during a response to a disruptive event. <br>
__DRP / Disaster Recovery Plan:__ Specifically refers to plans used in case of a natural disaster. <br>

the BCP is the responsibilty of the senior managers at the organization! <br>

Recall from Security+ Studying!! <br>
7 Steps of creating BCP: <BR>
1. Develop a policy for contingency planning
2. Conduct a business impact analysis
3. Identify the preventative controls
4. Create recovery strategies
5. Develop the BCP
6. Test, Train, and exercise the BCP
7. Maintain the BCP

4 Types of Sites:
- Hot Site: ready to go, running already. <br>
- Warm Site: almost ready to go, just a few days to get ready. <br>
- Cold Site: more time for recovery, but cheaper. <br>
- Mobile Site: independent and portable units to provide recovery. <br>

### Training and Testing ###
important to keep employees up-to-date to know what to do! not just 'have' a BCP! <br>

Tabletop Execises == Awesome! <br>
Backdoor & Breaches == AWESOME <3 <br>