## Detection and Analysis ##
short section incoming :P <br>

### OODA Loop ###
not exactly an exam question, but OODA loop is a common framework used when conducting an incidence response. "think clear through the fog of war"???

__O__ bserve: identify the problem/threat, get a overall understanding of its internal an external environment. <br> 
__O__ rient: reflect on what was observed, and consider what should be done next. <br>
__D__ ecide: make suggestion towards action/response plan taking into consideration of all potential outcomes <br>
__A__ ct: carry out the decision and start over back to the observe phase to see if the action made considerable changes towards fixing the threat. <br>

__DO NOT__ be overcome by paralysis from analysis. keep making SMALL actions that move you towards fixing the incident. <br>

### Defensive Capabilities ###
what defensive options do you have? <br>

- Detect: identify the presence of an adversary and the resources at their access. <br>
- Destory: render an adversary's resources permanently useless or ineffective. "hack-back" <br>
- Degrade: reduce an adversary's capability or functionality. block IP's, disable accounts ... <br>
- Disrupt: interrupt an adversary's communication or frustrate/confuse their efforts. <br>
- Deny: prevent an adversary from learning about your capabilities or accessing your information assets. <br>
- Decieve: supply false information to distort the adversary's understanding and awareness, think honeypots, ports, and nets! <br>

### Detection and Analysis ###
__Detection + Analysis:__ determine if incident has taken place, triage, and notify relevant stakeholders. <br>

SIEMS == the :goat: of this phase :P <br>
benign, suspicious, or malicious ...

### Impact Analysis ###
deciding how severe an event is CRITICAL! <br>
- Damage to Data Integrity
- Unauthorized Changes
- Theft of Data
- Disclosure of confidential data
- Service interruption
- System Downtime

__Impact-based Approach:__ categorization that focuses on the severity of an incident, such as emergency, significant, moderate, or low. <br>
- Organizational, Localized, Immediate, Total
__Taxonomy-based Approach:__ approach that defines incident categories at the top level, such as worm outbreak, phishing attempt, DDoS, external host/acc compromise, or internal privilege abuse. <br>

### Incident Classification ###
Common Incident Classifications include by are not limited to:
- Data Integrity
- System Process Criticality
- Downtime
- Economic
- Data Correlation
- Reverse Engineering
- Recovery Time
- Detection Time