## Containment, Eradication, and Recovery + Post Incident Recovery ##
domains 3 and 4 still! <br>

### Containment ###
me when i contain. <br>

__Containment:__ limit the scope and magnitude of the incident by securing data and limiting its impact on business operations and customers. <br>
1. ensure safety and security of all personnel.
2. prevent ongoing intrusion or breach.
3. identify if intrusion is the primary or secondary attack.
4. avoid alerting the attacker when discovered.
5. preserve any forensic evidence of the intrusion. 

_Isolation:_ remove infected component from larger environment. <br>
_Segmentation:_ mitigation strategy that achieves the isolation of the host/group of host using network technologies like subnetting. <br>
_Sandboxing:_ separation of system from other critical system resources. <br>

### Eradication ###
_Eradication:_ removal of the cause of the incident, restoring the system back to a secure state. <br>

sanitization, reformating disks, restoring known good images, secure erase...

__Cryptographic Erase:__ method of sanitizing a self-encrypting drive by erasing the media encryption key. <br>
__Zero-fill:__ method of sanitizing a hard drive by overwriting all the bits on the drive with zeros. <br>

recall in Security+ --> data destruction NEEDS to be legit, like physical destruction, degaussing, shredding ... <br>

### Eradication Actions ###
Reconstruction: restore system files after sanitization. <br>
Reimaging: restoring entire hard drive image of sanitization. <br>

Reconstitution: resotring a system that can not be sanitized using manual removal... <br>
1. analyze processes and network activity for signs of malware.
2. terminate suspicious process and delete them from the system. 
3. identify and disable autostart locations like registry key, file system, and task scheluder.
4. replace contaminated process with clean versions from trusted sources.
5. reboot system and analyze for signs of continued malware infection. 
6. if continued, analyze firmware and usb devices for infection.
7. if negative, reconstitution is done successfully!

### Recovery Actions ###
Patching <br>
Permissions <br>
Logging <br>
System Hardening <br>

3 Things to think about when System Hardening: <br>
1. uninstall not-in-use application
2. if needed, patch the application frequently
3. always enforce least-privilege

### Post-Incident Activities ###
__Post_Incident Activity:__ analysis of the incident and response to identify procedures or system that could be improved. <br>
_Report Writing_, _Incident Summary Report_, and _Evidence Retention_ <br>

### Lessons Learned ###
Tabletop exerise prove to be a vital role in an organization in order to learn what can be done better when the next incident happens. <br>

### Root-Cause Analysis ###
me when you want to understand the root-cause of the incident so that you can prevent it from happening again. <br>