## Identifying Security Control Types! ##
__Domains Covered: 2 (2.5 - Vulnerability Management)__<br>

### Cybersecurity Roles and Responsibilties ###
Definition Time!
- _Cybersecurity Analyst:_ a senior position within an organization's security team with direct responsibility for protecting sensitive information and preventing unauthorized access to electronic data and the systems that protect it. (junior + senior analyst)
A cybersecurity analyst will be responible with...: <br>
1. implementing +configuring security controls
2. working in a SOC or CSIRT
3. auditing security processes and procedures
4. conducting risk assessments, vulnerability assessments, and penetration testing.
5. maintaining up-to-date threat intelligence <br>

- _CISO:_ Chief Information Security Officer, senior position that is head of security for the organization.
### Security Operation Center ###
__SOC (Security Operation Center):__ A location where security professionals monitor and protect critical information assets in an organization. <br>
SOC's usually exist at higher levels of organizations, like large corporations, government agencies, and health care organizations. <br>
SOC's Need:
1. Authority to Operate
2. Must Contain motivated and skilled professionals
3. Must incorporate all IT/business processes into some type of center (SIEM? :eyes_emoji:)
4. Equipped to perform incident response
5. Needs to be able to protect the organization and itself
6. Needs to be able to separate the signal from the noise!
7. Ability to collaborate with other SOC's and cybersecurity organizations for data sharing and threat intelligence.
### Security Control Categories ###
__Security Control:__ Mitigation of vulnerabilities and risk to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availiablity, nonrepudation, and authentication of data. <br>

recall the CIA Triad and CIANA from security+! <br>
NIST SP 800-53 (Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations)<br>
- AC / Access Control
- AA / Accountability
- IR / Incident Response
- RM / Risk Management

Three Family Types of Controls: <br>
1. __Technical:__ A category of security controls that is implemented as a system (hardware, software, or firmware)
2. __Operational:__ A category of security controls that is implemented primarily by people rather than systems.
3. __Managerial:__ A category of security controls that provides oversight of the information system

no longer in NIST SP 800-53, but is very useful to help identify security controls! <br>

Functional Types of Controls:
- _Preventative_: a control acting to elimate/reduce the likelihood of a successful attack. (IPS, ACL, Firewall, Antivirus)
- _Detective_: a control that may not prevent or deter access, but will identify and record any attempted or successful intrusion (IDS, logs, cameras)
- _Corrective_: a control that acts to elimate or reduce the impact of a intrusion event (backup server, rollbacks, secondary services, patch management systems)
- _Physical_: security control that acts against in-person intrusion attempts (bollards, locks, cameras, alarms, security guards, fences...)
- _Deterrent_: security control that discourages an intrusion attempts
- _Compensating_: security control that acts as a substitute for a principal control
- _Responsive_: security control that actively monitors for potential vulnerabilities or attacks, and then takes action to mitigate them before they can cause damage (IPS, Network Firewall, )
### Selecting Security Controls ###
there is a lot of security controls, so how do you select what you want?! <br>

think CIA! <br>
{ <br>
    Confidentiality
    Intgretity
    Authentication + Authorization + Availibilty
} <br>
