## Risk Mitigation ##
obj 2.5 + 4.1 <br>

### Risk Identification Process ###
__ERM / Enterprise Risk Management:__ comprehensive process of evaluating, measuring, and mitigating risks that exist in an organization. <br>

Quantitative v Oualitative! <br>
price cost V low med high critical

### Conducting an Assessment ###
assets are defined not just by the product cost but the cost to replace the data within them <br>

_Business Continuity Loss:_ loss associated with no longer being able to fufill contracts and orders due to breakdown of critical systems. <br>
_Legal Cost:_ Criminal v Civil <br>
_Reputational Harm_ <br>

threat and vulnerability management is heavily defined by how your risk posture is measured. <br>

### Risk Calculation ###
_Quantitative Risk_ = Probability X Impact <br>
_Single Loss Expectancy / SLE = Asset Value x Exposure Factor_ <br>
ARO = Annual Rate of Occurence. <br>
ALE = ARO X SLE <br>

Qualitative risk is much easier to calculate! <br>
honestly imo the best solution is to use a mix of both as a risk calculation model solution. <br>

### Business Impact Analysis / BIA ###
_BIA:_ systematic activity that identifies organizational risks and determines their effect on ongoing mission critical operations. <br>
- Maximum Tolerable Downtime
- Recovery Time Objective
- Work Recovery Time
- Recovery Point Objectives: how long to go without critical data. 

### Risk Prioritization ###
4 Main Ways of Handling Risk: <br>
1. __Risk Mitigation:__ goal is reduce risk
2. __Risk Avoidance:__ goal is to avoid risk in the area completely 
3. __Risk Transference:__ goal is to transfer the risk to a different party
4. __Risk Acceptance:__ accept that the event can happen and move on

Security and Operations tend to conflict with each other, striking a balance is what our goal is with risk! <br>
### Communicating Risk ###
being able to communicate the techinical jargon of risk into something that business and stakeholders of the organization can easily understand. <br>

_Risk Register:_ document highlighting the results of risk assessments in easily understandible format. <br>

Exeception Management is also important! <br>

### Training and Exercises ###
dicussed previously in sections before! <br>
Red Team, Blue Team, White Team <br>

