## Frameworks, Policies, and Procedures ##
covers domain 2.1, 3.1 <br>

### Enterprise Security Architecture ###
being the best technologies relevent for our stakeholders == awesome security people! <br>

__Enterprise Security Architecture / ESA:__ framework for defining baseline, goals, and methods used to secure a business. <br>
- This covers policies, checklists, activities, technologies, and playbooks to be used.

these frameworks helps provide a externally verifable statement of regularotry complience. some frameworks include, ITIL, ISO 27001, PCI DSS, COBIT ... <br>

### Prescriptive Frameworks ###
__Prescriptive Frameworks:__ framework that stipulates control selection and deployment. <br>

__Maturity Model:__ component of an ESA Framework that is used to assess the formality and optimization of security control selection and usage and address any gaps. <br>

reactive --> proactive model == good! <br>
tiers I-V <br>

### Risk-based Frameworks ###
presceptive framework can make it hard to keep up to pace with evolving cyber landscape. <br>

__Risk-based Framework:__ framework that uses risk assessment to prioritize security control selection and investment. <br>

In an organization, you want to work up to higher quality framework profiles. <br>

### Industry Frameworks ###
__PCI DSS:__ payment card industry data security standard. <br>
__CIS / Center for Internet Security:__ nonprofit organization that provides a set of best practices and guildlines to secure IT systems. <br>
__OWASP:__ non-profit org that aims to promote and improve web application security. <br>
- me when they drop top ten vulners
__ISO 27000:__ Used to provide a framework for managing information security. <br>
__Open Source Software Testing Maturity Model: (OSS TMM):__ framework for evaluating and improving the quality of open source software and its testing processes. <br>

### Audits and Assessments ###
__QC - Quality Control__
__QA - Quality Assurance__ <br>

_Assessment:_ process of testing the subject against a checklist of requirements againts an absolute standard. <br>
_Audit:_ rigid process where an auditor compares the organization against a predefined baseline to identify areas that require remediation. <br>

### Continuous Monitoring ###
__Continuous Monitoring:__ the technique of constantly evaluating an environment for changes so that new risks may be quickly detected and business operations be improved upon. <br>
