## Enumeration ##
maybe when NMAP! finally back to some more technical sections <br>

### Enumeration Tools ###
__Enumeration:__ process to identify and scan network ranges and hosts belonging to the target and map out an attack surface. <br>
- Active: connection is made, and data transmitted.
- Semi-passive: technique to utilize sparse connections durin recon to avoid detection.
- Passive: no connection is made, just data collection on the network. 

OSINT can be used for Enumeration as well! <br>
_foot_ == broad definition
_finger_ == specific host level defining

### NMAP Discovery Scans ###
__NMAP:__ a versatile port scanner used for topology, host, service, and OS discovery and enumeration. <br>

basic syntax is nmap followed by ip address/domain name of the host you want to perform a port scan on. <br>
default config is easy for IDS and IPS to detect, and will only check first 1000 commonly used ports <br>

-sn --> host discovery scan only. <br>
-sL --> list scan of ip addresses from the supplied target range and perform reverse DNS query to discover host names associated with those IP's <br>
-PS <PortList> --> probs specific ports from list using TCP SYN packet instead and ICMP <br>
--scan-delay --> spacing inbetween probes. <br>
--Tn --> probes with timing pattern <br>
--sI --> tcp idle scan that makes it look like a zombie started the scan to hide. <br>
-f --> split TCP header of probe into multiple datagrams to make it harder for IDS to detect. <br>
-oN --> send to a file <br>

### NMAP Port Scans ###
__Service Discovery:__ Determines which network services and operating systems are in use by a target. <br>

even "stealthy" nmap scans can be detected by well-configured IDS/IPS, so keep that in mind! <br>
-sX --> conducts a scan setting packet with FIN, PSH, and URG flags, surefire way to make sure people see port scanning activity. <br>

### NMAP Port States ###
Port States: <br>
- Open: application/host is ready to accepting connections
- Closed: port sends a reset RST packet, no app is accepting connection.
- Filtered: nmap cannot probe the port, probably meaning it was intercepted/stopped by network firewall/host. 
- Unfiltered: can probe, but not sure if open or closed, Open|Filtered, Closed|Filtered.

### NMAP Fingerprinting Scans ###
_fingerprinting_ --> specific information hunting on a host/system. <br>
-sV (basic version info)
-A (intensive version info)

__Nmap Scripting Engine / NSA:__ scripts written in Lua that can be used to carry out detailed probes. <br>

### Hping ###
__Hping:__ packet crafting and manipulate tool to exploit vulnerable firewalls and IDS/IPS. <br>
_timestamping:_ used to determine system uptime, good to see when the servers last patch management was done. <br>

### Angry IP Scanner ###
__Angry IP Scanner:__ open-source tool that can be used to quickly scan an IP range to determine which hosts are active as well as gather information. <br>

### Maltego ###
__Maltego:__ open-src tool used for data mining, reconnaissance, and enumeration. <br>
great for OSINT and network map visualizations, try using this tool! <br>

### Responder ###
__Responder:__ cmd line tool used to poison responses to NetBIOS, LLMNR, and MDNS name resolution requests in an attempt to do a MITM attack. <br>
can also be used in a blue-teaming scheme to find other people attempting this attack. <br>

### Wireless Assessment Tools ###
the goal of these tools is to detect wireless networks, identify the security type and config, and exploit any known weaknesses in the security to gain unauthorized access to the network. <br>

__Aircrack-ng Suite:__ a suite of utilities designed for wireless network security testing. <br>
only really effective for WEP-based networks. true solution is to use RADIUS auth. <br>

__Reaver:__ cmd tool that can be used to perform brute force attacks against WPS-enabled access points. <br>

WPS IS BAD for security with wireless networks!! <br>

### Recon-ng ###
__Recon-ng:__ open-src OSINT suite of tools <br>

### Hashcat ###
_Hashcat:_ cmd tool for perform brute force and dictionary attacks on a password. with GPU power, brute force can become much faster. <br>
