## Mitigating Vulnerabilities ##
last chapter in vulnerability section! <br>
2.1, 2.5, 4.1

### Remediation and Mitigation ###
recall what was discussed at the end of the last chapter, priorization of risks must occur before remediation of them. <br>

_Remediation:_ overall process of reducing exposure to the effects of risk factors. <br>
### Configuration Baselines ###
__Configuration Baseline:__ settings for services and policy configuration for a server operating in a particular application role. 

*remember all the base images used at BCA for summer imaging?*<br>
_Compensating Control:_ type of security control that acts as a substitute for a principal control. <br>

### Hardening and Patching ###
__System Hardening:__ the process where a host or other device is made more secure through the reduction of the device's attack surface area. <br>
- uninstall anything not used (CIA)
- enforce ACLs (CIA)
- restrict user account to least priviliges (CI)
- close all unused ports (CIA)
- secure local admin or root account (C)
- disable unused accounts and groups (I)
- verify permissions on a system accounts (CI)
- update anti-malware software + drivers regularly (CI)
- rate limiting for network connections (A)
- provide secondary power (A)

__Patch Management:__ identifying, testing, and deploying OS and application updates <br>
_System Center Configuration Manager (I USED BF!)_, _Endpoint Manager_<br>

### Remediation Issues ###
all of issues can come up when trying to fix an issue!
is the risk cost high enough to justify the cost of fixing it? <br>
- Legacy Systems: system no longer supported by its vendor, so no more security patches are provided.
- Organizational Governance: if org doesnt realllyyyy care about their security/not the first priority.
- Business Process Interruption: period of time where organizational operation is interrupted (patching...).
- Degrading Functionality: systems are not performing at peak functionality (patching in sections reduces availiability).
- Memorandum of Understand (MOU): handshake deals to provide services or deals.
- Service Level Agreement (SLA): contractual agree on how business under a service will be provided.

