### Identity and Access Management Solutions ###
another important chapter in my opinion! <br>
1.1
### IAM / Identity and Access Management ###
__IAM / Identity and Access Management:__ security process that provides identification, authentication, and authorization mechanisms for users and computers. <br>
IAM is need for user accounts, user groups, server accounts, software accounts ... <br>

_roles:_ supports the identities of various assets by defining the resources an asset has permission to access based on the function the asset fulfills. <br>

### Password Policies ###
_Password Policy:_ policy document that promotes strong passwords by specifying a minimum password length, requiring complexity, requiring periodic password changes, and placing limits on password reuse. <br>
- complexity is no longer recommended to be enforced...
- aging policies are not recommended to be enforced.
- no password hints should be used

Password reuse is a huge vulnerability and hard to mitigate, but make users utilize a password manager can help mitigate this! <br>

### SSO and MFA ###
NJIT SSO be like!<BR>

_SSO / Single Sign-On:_ authentication technology that enables a user to authenticate once and receive authorization for multiple services. <br>
_MFA / Multi-Factor Authentication:_ authentication scheme that requires the user to present at least two different factors as credentials, from something you know, something you have, something you are, something you do, and somewhere you are. <br>

### Certificate Management ###
__Certificate Management:__ practice of issuing, updating, and revoking digitial certificates. <br>
the MOST common way of identifying machine and application identity IS through ditigal certificates! <br>

_sigcheck:_ sysinternal utility that allows to verify root certificates in the local store against Microsoft's master trust list. <br>
_OpenSSL:_ tool to create and view cert infos. (Linux) <br>
_certutil:_ utility that allows to display cert authority configuration info. (Windows) <br>

Root Certificates must be protected heavily! <br>
Self-signed certificates can be considered a vulnerability <br>

### Federation ###
__Federation:__ process that provides a shared login capability across multiple systems and enterprises, similar to SSO. <br>

Federation --> SSO is provide as a service by identity provider to you, you never check credentials, trust system. (Log in with Google) <br>
SSO --> cryptographic hash value is compared for password still, but one master password allows access to multiple services. <br>

### Passwordless Authentication ###
__Passwordless Authentication:__ allows the login to a computer system without entering a password or any other knowledge base secret. Think of pins, biometrics ... <br>

### Privilege Management ###
__Privilege Management:__ use of authentication and authorization mechanisms to provide an adminstrator with centralized or decentralized control of user and group role-based privilege management. <br>

Access Control Types: <br>
- Discretionary Access Control / DAC: each resource is protected by an ACL, and by a resource owner. (Windows NT) <br>
- Manadatory Access Control / MAC: ACL where resources are protected by system-defined rules, every resource ans user is allocated a clearance level. (SELinux) <br>
- Role-Based Access Control / RBAC: ACL where resources are managed by administrators, that provide user permissions beased on job functions. (Group Policy, Windows) <br>
- Attribute-based Access Control / ABAC: ACL that evaluates set of attributes that each subject possesses to see if access should be granted. <br>

### IAM Auditing ###
IAM auditing is critical for detecting compromises to legit accounts, rogue account utilization, and insider threats. <br>
- look for consecutive logon fails, unscheduled changes, gaps in log, and permission changes.

### Conduct and Use Policies ###
security policies defined what uses can do!
__Code of Conduct__: defined set of rules and expectations for employees in a job role. <br>
__Privileged User Agreement / PUA:__ contract wiht terms stating CoC for employees is assigned based on their higher level permissions on the network and data systems. <br>
__Acceptable Use Policy / AUP:__ policy that governs all employees use of company equipment and internet services. <br>