## Network Architecture and Segmentation ##
### Asset and Change Management ###
__Asset Tag:__ assigned ID to an asset in order to track equipment and endpoint devices. Remember how inventory system worked at BCA! <br>
__Change Management:__ defined process where changes of configurations and parts of an asset on the network is set up. <br>

change management helps mitigate and minimize risk of potential service disruptions and ensure proper patch management occurs! <br>
_RFC / Request for Change:_ document that list reasons for changes and process to implement it. <br>

### Network Architecture ###
_Physical:_ --> cabling, switch/router ports, WAP's supplying wired and wireless network access and connectivity. <br>
_VPN / Virtual Private Network:_ secure tunnel between two endpoints connected on an untrusted network. <br>
_SDN / Software Defined Networking:_ virtualized networks utilizing automatization through code <br>
- control plane: how traffic should move!
- data plane: actual switching and routing of traffic!
- management plane: monitor traffic conditions and network status!
_SASE / Secure Access Secure Edge:_ combination of network security and WAN capabilities into a single solution. <br>
- firewall, VPN, zero-trust, cloud access platform security.

### Segmentation ###
me when i subnet :P

_System Isolation:_ network isolation that separates it from the network (Air Gap)<br>
_Physical:_ network segment has its own switch, and those can only communicate with each other. <br>
_Virtual:_ subnetting, trucking, logical segmentation by rules to create network sections. <br>


### Jumpbox ###
_Internet-facing:_ any host that accepts inbound connections from the internet. <br>
_Screened Subnet:_ segment isolated from the rest of the private network by one or more firewalls that accepts connections from the Internet over designated ports. <br>

__Bastion Host:__ host/server in a screened subnet which is not configured with any services that run on the local network. <br>
__Jumpbox:__ hardened server that provides access to other hosts within the DMZ. <br>

### Virtualization ###
__Virtualization:__ hypervisor that can be used to partition hardware into seperate operating systems that are made with virtualized hardware. <br>
Type 1: Literal Hardware is hypervisor      Type 2: VirtualBox, VMWare (Software Solution) <br>

__Virtual Desktop Infrastructure:__ virtualization implementation that seperates the personal computing environment from a users physical computer. <br>
__Containerization:__ type of virtualization that uses the hosts operating system to provision an isolated execution enviroment for an application. <br>
- if a host is compromised, all containers attached are also fair game -- OS compromised == cooked

### Virtualized Infrastructure ###
__Virtual Hosts:__ virtualized computer that allows for the installation and configuration of its own operating system. <br>
- must still be patched and hardened
__Virtual Network:__ virtual hosts that are interconnected using virtual switches, routers, and other virtualized networking equipment as part of the hypervisor. <br>

### Honeypots ###
i love honey! the best defense is a good offense type beat! / active+proactive defense <3 <br>

__Honeypot:__ host set up with the purpose of luring attackers away from the actual network components and/or discovering attack strategies and weaknesses in the organizations security configuration. <br>
- Honeynet, Honeyfile, Honeytoken.

__Attribution:__ indentification and publication of an attacker's methods, techniques, and tactics as useful threat intelligence. <br>

### Zero Trust ###
yummers! <br>

__Deperimeterization:__ removal of boundary between an organization and the outside world. <br>
__Zero Trust:__ removal of baseline level of trust established in network architecture. users --> group --> checking 5 W's <br>
