## Hardware Assurance ##
think this is the shortest section lol <br>
### Suply Chain Assessment ###
supply chain compromise is one of the biggest issues in cyber, and how to mitigate issues is very hard, because a lot of the time, it is out of your control, leaving your organization to be able to only act reactively. 

__Due Diligence:__ legal principle that a subject has used best practce or reasonable care when setting up, configuring, and maintaining a system. <br>
- good cyber programs, risk management and assurance, product support, end of life, incidence response ...!

__Trusted Foundry:__ microprocessor manufacturing utility that is part of a validated supply chain where hardware and software does not deviate from its documented function. <br>
- used for the most strict, risk-adverse organizations, like the department of defense. 

__Hardware Source Authenticity:__ the process of ensuring that hardware is procured tamper-free from trustworthy suppliers. <br>

### Root of Trust ###
__Hardware Root of Trust:__ cryptographic module embedded with a computer system that can endorse trusted execution and attest to boot settings and metrics. <br>
__TPM / Trusted Platform Module__ --> specification for hardware-based storage of digital certificates,, keys, hashed passwords, and other user and platform identification information. <br>
- ensures secure boot a machines launch!

__Hardware Security Module / HSM:__ an appliance for generating and storing cryptographic keys that are less susceptible to tampering and insider threats than software-based storage. <br>

### Trusted Firmware ###
firmware exploit == bad bad! <br>

1. __UEFI / Unified Extensible Firmware Interface:__ sys firmware for 64bit CPU operation at boot with mouse and keyboard control at boot
2. __Secure Boot:__ uefi feature that prevents unwanted processes from executing during boot operation
3. __Measured Boot:__ uefi feature that gathers secure metrics to validate boot process in attestion report
4. __Attestionation:__ claim that data is valid via signing using TPM private key
5. __eFUSE:__ means for software/firmware to permanetly alter the state of a transistor on a computer chip
6. __Trusted Firmware Updates:__ firmware is digital signed and validated by the vendor
7. __Self-Encrypting Drives:__ disk drive where controller can automatically encrypt the data on the drive

### Secure Processing ###
__Secure Processing:__ mechanism for ensuring the confidentially, integrity, and availability of software code and data as it is executed in volatile memory. <br>
- __Processor Security Extensions:__ low level CPU changes that enable secure processing
- __Trusted Execution:__ CPU's security extensions that invoke TPM and secure boot attestation
- __Secure Enclave:__ extension that allows trusted process to create encrypted container for data
- __Atomic Execution:__ certain operation that only allows operations to happen once, and not be interrupted
- __Bus Encryption:__ data that is encrypted by an application prior to being to sent on data bus

