## Specialized Techology ##
2.1 2.4 
### ICS + SCADA Vulnerablities ###
__OT / Operational Technology:__ a communication network designed to implement an industrial control system rather than data networking. <br>
in RTOS systems, Avaibilitiy is what is MOST important. <br>

__ICS / Industrial Control System:__ network that manages embedded devices. <br>
_Fieldbus:_ digital serial data communications that are used in OT networks to link PLC's / Programmable Logic Controller. <br>

__SCADA / Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition:__ type of industrial control system that manages large-scale, multi-site devices and equipments spread over a geographical region. <br>
__Modbus:__ communication protocol used in operational technology networks. <br> (TRYHACKME forensics challenge involved this!!!)


### Mobile Vulnerabilities ###
mobile BYOD devices exist in basically all orgs so its important to consider in a securiy posture. <br>

__BYOD / Bring Your Own Device:__ security policy set by a company that allows for employess to use personal smartphones, laptops, tables ... for work and connection to the corporate network. <br>
- (-) creates depermization of corporate network!
- (-) can not enforce patching and other security 
- (-) taxing on org's infrastructure
- (-) forensic complications in gathering evidence
- (-) lost/stolen devices with corporate data 
- (-) jailbroken devices 

__Enterprise Mobility Management / EMM:__ mobile device management suit with broader capabilties, such as identity and application management. <br>

### IoT Vulnerabilities ###
IoT faces a lot of issues with security standardization! which makes it dangerous to encorporate into an organization. <br>

### Embedded System Vulnerabilities ###
__Embedded System:__ computer system that is designed to perform a specific and dedicated function. <br>
__Programmable Logic Controller / PLC:__ type of computer designed for deployment in an industrial or outdoor setting that can automate and monitor mechanical systems. <br>
_System-on-Chip / SoC:_ processor that integrates platform functionality of multiple logical controllers onto a single chip. <br>

__Real-Time Operating System / RTOS:__ type of OS that prioritizes deterministic execution operations for time critical-tasks. <br> (CS332!)
__Field Programmable Gate Array:__ processor that can be programmed to perform a specific function by a customer rather than at the time of manufacture. <br>

### Mitigating Vulnerabilities ###
### Premise System Vulnerabilities ###
__Premise Systems:__ systems used for building automation and physical access security. <br>

### Vehicular Vulnerabilities ###
