## Threat Intelligence Sharing ##
### Security and Threat Intelligence ###
in the past, just configuring the right technologies was enough to ensure a solid base line of protection against cyber attacks, but in todays world of rapidly advancing cyber attack strategies, the importance of security intell has never been greater! <br>

__Security Intelligence:__ the process where data is generated, collected, processed, analyzed, and disseminated to provide insights into the security status of information systems. (think aggeragate log collection and parsing) <br>
__Cyber Threat Intelligence:__ investigation, collection, analysis and dissemination of information about emerging threats and threat sources to provide data about the external threat landscape. <br>
--> Narrative Reports <br> _(red canary yearly reports)_ <br>
--> Data Feeds <br> _(virustotal)_ <br>
### Intelligence Cycle ###
intelligence is a process! <br>
requirements --> collection and processing --> analysis --> dissemination --> feedback (cycle again!) <br>

__Requirements:__ sets the goals for intelligence gathering! <br>
__Collection/Processing:__ software tools used to gather and parse data into a center server for later and continued analysis. <br>
__Analysis:__ performed against the given use cases from the planning phase, may utilize automated analysis, AI, machine learning ... (scale of data being parsed). <br>
__Dissemination:__ publishing of informations and findings by analyst to being understood and read by other audiences. (executive report, operational, tactical) <br>
__Feedback:__ aims to clarify requirements to improve data collection and analysis. (how to make next time better!) <br>

### Intelligence Sources ###
recall the collection/processing step in the last section! <br>
not all intelligence we collection is important and needed. 

- Timeliness: ensuring intelligences sources are up-to-date!
- Relevancy: ensure that the source matches relevent intended case. 
- Accuracy: ensure that the source is producing effective results.
- Confidence Level: ensure that the source produces qualified statements on reliability.

Information Sources! <br>

1. __Proprietary:__ threat intelligence that is widely provided as a service, where acces to updates and research is subject to a monetary fee.
2. __Closed-Source:__ threat intelligence that is derived from the providers own research and analysis, such as data from honeynets/pots, plus information from customer systems, which is anonymized.
3. __Open Source:__ threat intelligence that is availible without money, which includes threat feeds, reputation lists, and malware signature databases. (OSI)
- US_CERT, UK's NCSC. AT&T Security, MISP, VirusTotal, Spamhaus, SANS ISC Suspicious Domains.

### Information Sharing and Analysis Centers ISACS ###
ISACS! - usually industry specific sources of intelligence gahtering! (critical infra, government, healthcare...) <br>

__Critical Infrastructure:__ Any physical or virtual infrastructure considered so vital to the US that their incapacitation or destruction would have a debilitating effect on security, economic security, national public health ... <br>
ex: nuclear plants, stock martket servers, core internet infra, water plants, labs ... <br>
think what noah is doin --> ICS, SCADA's ... <br>

__Government:__ Serves non-federal governments in the US. (state, local, tribal, and territoral governments). <br>

__Healthcare:__ Serves healthcare providers that are targets of crimals seeking ransom opportunities by compromising patient data records or interfering with medical devices. <br>

__Financial:__ Servers the financial sector to prevent fraud and extortion of both the consumer and the financial institutions. <br>

__Aviation:__ Servers the aviation industry to prevent fraud, terrorism, service disruptions, and unsafe operations of air traffic control systems. <br>

### Threat Intelligence Sharing ### 
sharing info in organizations useful too! (Dissemination!) <br>

__Risk Management:__ Identifing, evaluating, and prioritizing threats and vulnerabilities to reduce their negative impact. <br>

__Incident Response:__ An organized approach to addressing and managing the aftermath of a cybersecurity breach or attack. <br>

__Vulnerability Management:__ the practice of identifying, classifying, prioritizing, remediating, and mitigating software vulnerabilities. <br>