## Non-technical Data and Privacy Controls ##
1.1 2.5,    not technically listed in objectives, but WILL be covered in the exam.

### Data Classification ###
__Data Governance:__ The process of managing information over its life cycle from creation to destruction. <br>
- Creation: apply confidentiality to it
    - unclassified, classified, confidential, secret, top secret
- Storage
- Distribution
- Retention
- Destruction

### Data Types ###
__Data Type:__ tag/label to identify a piece of data under a subcategory of a classification. <br>
- PII, SPI, PHI ... 
__Data State:__
1. Data at Rest
2. Data in Transit
3. Data in Use

### Legal Requirements ###
_Privacy:_ a data governance requirement that arises when collecting and processing personal data to ensure the rights of the subjects data. <br>
across the globe, privacy is be vastly different! <br>

__GPDR / General Data Protection Regulation:__ personal data can not be collected, processed, or retained without the individual's informed consent (EU LAW). <br>
GPDR requires data breaches to be report within 72 hours! <br>

__SOX / Sarbanes-Oxley Act:__ sets forth the requirements for storage and retention of documents related to an organizations finanical and business operatio. (US) (must have stock eval of 75$ mil to be applicable) <br>
__Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act / GLBA:__ requirements that help protect the privacy of an individual's finanical information that is held by finanical institutions. <br>
__Federal Information Security Management Act / FISMA:__ requirements for federal organizations to adopt information assurance controls. <br>
__HIPPA__<br>
__Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission / COSO:__ guidance on a variety of governance-related topics including fraud, controls, finance, and ethics, an relies on COSO's ERM-integrated framwork. <br>

### Data Policies ###
_Purpose Limitation:_ the principal that personal information can be collected and processed only for the stated purpose of which the subject had consented. <br>
_Data Minimization:_ principal that only necessary and sufficient personal information can be collected and processed for the stated purpose. <br>
_Data Sovereignty:_ principal that countries and states may impose individual requirements on data collected within their jurisdiction. <br>

### Data Retention ###
retention --> tools for management of storage for required data. <br>
always consult legal experts when needing to abide to regulations and standards. <br>

### Data Ownership ###
_data ownership:_ process of identifying the person responsible for the CIA and privacy of information assets. <br>
* Data Owner --> ultimate responsible owner for CIA
* Data Steward --> maintaining quality of data
* Data Custodian --> handling management of data (sys-admin)
* Privacy Officer --> oversight of privacy of data

### Data Sharing ###
__SLA:__ Service Level Agreement. <br>
__ISA:__ Interconnection Security Agreement, for federal agencies to set out risk awareness process and commit to implementing security controls <br>
__NDA:__ Non-Disclosure Agreement. <br>
