## Technical Data and Privacy Controls ##
continution of last section! <br>

### Access Controls ###
AC can be added to basically any level of a network <br>

ACL's! will vary on what type of file system you are handling with <br>
geographic access control is also another important thing to consider and is easy to implement. <br>

### File System Permissions ###
nice perm bro >:D <br>

incorrect permission == horrible! <br>
_Windows:_ <br>
- icacls --> windows cmdtool to show and modify file permissions. <>
_Linux:_ <br>
- chmod --> linux tool to modify permission to files, folders, and directories. <>
- chown --> linux tool to modify owner of file. <>
- r = read (4) w = write (2) x = execute (1)
- _ \___ ___ ___filename
- d  rwx r-x r--


### Encryption ###
Data at Rest <br>
- Encrypted Hard drives
Data at Transit <br>
- IPSec, TLS, WPA2
Data at Use <br>
- Filesystem encryption of RAM, CPU cache and registers. 

### Data Loss Prevention / DLP ###
__DLP / Data Loss Prevention:__ software solution that detects and prevents sensitive information from being stored on unauthorized systems or transmitted over unauthorized networks. <br>
- Policy Server, Endpoint Agent, and Network Agent

DLP solutions can act at different levels: <br>
- Alert
- Block
- Quarantine
- Tombstone: replace file that was touched with new file that alerts of potential data loss ☠️

### DLP Discovery and Classification ###
__Six Topics in the Video:__
1. Classification: RBAC of confidentiality classification tags/labels. 
2. Exact Data Match: structured database of string values that need to match. (hashed for confidentiality)
3. Dictionary: set of matched patterns that can be used to block actions.
4. Document Matching: matching based on entire/partial document based on hashes. 
5. Policy Template: template of optimized dictionaries for data points in regulatory schema. 
6. Statistical/Lexicon: refinement of partial DM that uses machine learning to analyzed a range of data sources. 

### Deidentification Controls ###
__Deidentification:__ methods and technology that removes identifying information from the data source before it is distributed/stored. <br>
- Data Masking: generic / placeholder data is put in place inside of critical identifying data.
- Tokenization: unique token is inputted in place of real data. (ID numbers)
- Aggregation/Banding: data is generalized to elimate any form of individual data points.
- Reidentification: attack that combines deidentified data with other sources in order to discover the original source/owner of the data. 
### DRM and Watermarking ###
__Digitial Rights Management / DRM:__ copyright protection technologies for digital media which mitigates the risk of unauthorized copies from being distributed. <br>
THIS VIDEO! lol

_Watermarking_ <br>
