## Mitigating Software Vulnerabilities and Attacks ##
2.2 2.4 2.5, back to a longer chapter! <br>

### SDLC / Software Development Life Cycle Integration ###
__SDLC:__ process of planning, analysis, design, implementation, annd maintenance that governs software and system development. <br>
- _Waterfall_: phases of SDLC model cascade so each phase starts after all tasks in the last are completed.
- _Agile_: SDLC model that focuses on iterative and incremental development to account for evolving requirements and expectations. 

Some Frameworks that you can follow! <br>
- SDL / Security Development Life Cycle: microsoft framwork.
- OWASP Software Security Assurance Process

__SANS / SysAdmin, Network, and Security Institute__ mentioned!

### Execution and Escalation ###
__Arbitrary Code Execution:__ able to run malicious code. <br>
__Remote Code Execution:__ transmission of code over a remote to run malicious code. <br>
_Privilege Escalation_
- Vertical: normal to sudo
- Horizontal: HR to Management
__rootkit:__ class of malware that modifies system files often at the kernal level. <br>

### Overflow Attacks ###
me when i buffer the overflow:
- __Buffer Overflow:__ attack where data goes past boundary of the destination buffer and begins to encroach in adjacent memory. <br>
    - _Smash the Stack:_ occurs when an attacker fills the buffer with NOP so that the return address may hit a NOP and continue on until it finds the attacker code to run
- __Heap Overflow:__ vulnerability where input is allowed to overwritememory locations with process memory allocation to store dynamically-sized variables (heap). <br>
- __Integer Overflow:__ attack where computed result of an data type is too large to fit in its assigned storage space, and if handled improperly, it can lead to a crash, data corruption, or buffer overflow. <br>

__Address Space Layout Randomization / ASLR:__ technique that randomizes where system functions are in a running application in order to mitigate buffer overflow attacks. <br>

### Race Conditions ###
__Race Conditions:__ software vulnerability where resulting outcome from a process is dependent on the order and timings of certain events. <br>
- lots of things can be called a race condition, like any time of posioning attacks rely on begginning first in line.
- when developing, consider atomic functions or semaphores in order to mitigate against race conditions. (tickets, products, ...)

### Improper Error Handling ###
me when errors are told to everyone :c <br>

error handling is critical! (cs332 be like :P) <br>
default error messages can leak sensitive messages (think SQL spitting errors to webpage)<br>

### Design Vulnerabilities ###
code reuse == potentially dangerous
third party library == potentially dangerous
SDK == potentially dangerous

all because its NOT code you reviewed or wrote! <br>

### Platform Best Practices ###
_Client/Server Application:_ consider the three vectors of attack, client side, network channel between, or server side! <br>
_Web Application:_ web browser, network protocols, web server <br>
_Mobile Application:_ weaker authentication, authorization, and confidentiality <br>
_Embedded Application:_ ICS, SCADA, not security focused, and legacy apps <br>

### Metasploit Framework ###
metasploit == soooo yummy bro the amount of forensic challenges ive seen involving metasploit are crazy <br>

