## Mitigate Web Application Vulnerabilities ##
2.2 2.4 2.5 <br>

### Directory Traversal ###
/../../../etc/shadow <br>

_directory traversal:_ application attack that allows access to commands, files, and directories that may or may not be connected to the web document root directory. <br>
_file inclusion:_ think reverse shells. <br>
attacks can also appear through encoding in order to hide traversal attempts (%2e%2e%2f --> ../)<br>

proper input validation == goat <br>

### Cross-site Scripting ###
_XSS:_ malicious script hosted on the attackers side or coded in a link injected onto a trusted site designed to compromise clients browsing the trusted site, circumventing the browser security model of trusted zones. 
_persistent:_ verision of xss where code is inserted into back-end database 

### SQLi ###
i <3 SQLi <br>

SQLmap == awesome automated SQL tool. 
### XML Vulnerabilities ###
extensible markup language <br>

without encryption and input validation, spoofing is possible!<br>
_XML Bomb:_ xml encoding entities encoding exponentially, potential DoS'ing a machine
_XXE:_ xml doc requesting for local server side files. <br>

### Secure Code ###
- Input Validation
    - normalization, server side, and client side
- Output Encoding: output sanitization, stops untrusted user code displaying and executing
- parameterized queries

### Authentication Attacks ###
1. Spoofing: assume the identity of someone else.
2. On-path Attack: capture traffic between two host to interept traffic.
3. Password Spraying: multiple accounts tested against multiple passwords.
4. Credential Stuffing: stolen account name and passwords tested against multiple websites.
5. Broken Authentication: auth dont work :c

### Session Hijacking ###
me when i steal ur session cookies >:3 <br>

cookies v persisent cookies (session) <br>

__Cross-Site Request Forgery / XSRF:__ malicious script hosted on attackers site that can exploit a session started on another site in the same browser. <br>

### Server-Side Request Forgery ###
__SSRF / Server-Side Request Forgery:__ type of cyber attack in which an attacker is able to send a request on behalf of a web application. <br>

remember spookyctf challenge! :D

### Sensitive Data Exposure ###
__Sensitive Data Exposure:__ software vulnerability where an attacker is able to circumvent access controls and retrieve confidential or sensitive data from the file system or database. <br>

### Clickjacking ### 
__Clickjacking:__ type of hijacking attack that forces a user to unintentionally click a link that is embedded in or hidden by other web page elements. <br>

iframes on HTML pages can be potentially dangerous!!

### Web Application Vulnerabilities ###
