## Analyzing Application Assessments ##
burp... <br>
### Software Assessments ###
__Static Code Analysis:__ Process of reviewing uncomplied source code manually or with automated tools. <br>
__Formal Verification:__ software validation through mathematical modeling of inputs and outputs. <br>
__User Acceptance Testing / (UAT):__ Beta testing by end users that proves a program is usable and fit-for-purpose in real-world conditions. <br>
__Security Regression Testing:__ The process of checking that updates to code do not compromise existing security functionality or capability. <br>

### Reverse Enginneering ###
__Machine Code:__ Software that has been assembled into binary instructions that are expressed as hexadecimal digits native to the processor platform. <br>
__Dissassembler:__ reverse engineering software that converts machine language code <br>
__Assembly Code:__ complied software program converted into binary machine code using CPU instruction set and is represented in human-readable text. <br>
__Decompiler:__ reverse engineering tool that converts machine / assembly code in to a code of a higher-level language or pseudocode. <br>
__Immunity Debugger:__ debugger built specifically penetration testers to write exploits, analyze malware, and reverse engineer binary files using python scripts and API's. <br>

### Dynamic Analysis ###
_dynamic analysis:_ analysis of execution of compiled program, and how it interacts with a host, system, and network. <br>

debugger will allow to pause execute and monitor malware program at different steps! <br>

_fuzzing:_ dynamic code analysis technique that invloves sending a running application random and unusual input to evaluate how the application responds. <br>

### Web Application Scanners ###
__Web Application Scanner:__ vulnerabilitity testing tool designed to identify issues with web apps and servers. <br>
_nikto!_
_arachi_

### Burp Suite ###
RAHHHHH! IKNOW <3   <br>
_burp suite:_ proprietary interception proxy and web application assessment tool <>

### OWASP ZAP ###
_owasp ZAP:_ open-source interception proxy and web application assessment tool written in Java. <br>

### Analyzing Web Applications ###