## Service-Oriented Architecture ##
almost ready for test! 1.1 1.3 1.5 2.5 <br>

### SOA and Microservices ###
__Service-Oriented Architecture / SOA:__ software architecture where components of the solution are conceived as loosely cooupled services not dependent on a single platform type or technology. <br>
__ESB / Enterprise Service Bus:__ component of SOA architecture that facilitates decoupled service-to-service communication. <br>

__Microservices:__ architecture component where each part is a highly decoupled service not dependent on a single platform type/technology. <br>
- microservices can be harder to manage and troubleshoot when things start to go wrong... 

SOA v Microservices:
1. SOA: services connected together with interdependencies
2. Microservices: individual service that can be scaled, developed, and tested on its own. 

### SOAP ###
__SOAP / Simple Object Access Protocol:__ XML-based web services protocol that is used to exchange messages. <br>
- can be used to create communication between microservices! 
 
### SAML ###
__SAML / Security Assertions Markup Language:__ XML-data format used to exchange authentication information between client+server. <br>

SAML+SOAP == Good for authentication and authorization! <br>

### REST ###
__Representational State Transfer:__ software architecture style that defines set of constraints to be used for creating web application services. <br>
- can support html, xml, csv, or json!! 

_OAuth:_ delegated authorization framework for RESTful API's that enables apps to obtain limited access scopes to a users data without giving away a user's password. <br>
- OAuth2 is vulnerable to XSRF, bc it only provides authorization

__OpenID Connect:__ authentication protocl that can be implemented as special types of OAuth flows with precisely defined token fields. <br>
_JSON Web Tokens / JWT:_ token format thta contains a header, payload, and signature in JSON formtat. <br>

### API's, Webhooks, and Plugins ###
__API / Application Programming Interface:__ set of protocols and routines for building and interacting with software applications. <br>

__Webhook:__ way for one application to provide other applications with real-time information. <br>
- good when real-time and low latency data is important!

__Plugins:__ tool to extend the functionality of software program! <br>
- think about all the splunk plugins u used :D

### Scripting ###
think about how important scripting is for AUTOMATION! <br>

### Workflow Orchestration ###
_Orchestration:_ automation of multiple steps in a deployment process
- think Terraform or Ansible.

_docker_ and _kubernetes_ == dope! <br>

### FAAS and Serverless ###
__Function as a Service / FaaS:__ cloud service model that supports serverless software architecture by provisioning runtime containers in which code is executed in a particular programming langauge. <br>

_Serverless:_ software architecture that runs functions within virtualized containers in the cloud rather than on a dedicated server instance. <br>