## Cloud Infrastructure Assessments ##
1.1 2.2 <br>
### Cloud Threats ###
cloud can be just as dangerous if not even more then regular physical infrastructure! <br>

4 Main Vectors to Fortify:
1. __Insecure API usage:__ API's really need to be over encrypted channels (TLS, HTTPS, ...). Input Validation is also important! error+case handle also! rate handling for API's is also important. 
2. __Improper Key Management:__ keys need to be secure, and good authentication and authorization is important! dont hard code keys (looking at you, github warrior) <br>
3. __Improper Logging and Monitoring:__ just as important to log cloud activity!! 
4. __Unprotected Storage:__ buckets/blob need to be protected! default permission == EVIL!!!

### Cloud Forensics ###
Cloud Forensics can be hard ... <br>

all resources are virtual, so only logical analysis can really be done :c <br>

### Auditing the Cloud ###
__ScoutSuite:__ open-source tool written in Python that can be used to audit instances and policies created on multicloud platforms by collecting data using API calls. <br>

great for creating event rules and flagging non-allowed activity!! <br>

__Prowler:__ open-source tool used for security best practice assessments, audits, incident response, continuous monitoring, hardening, and forensics readiness for AWS cloud services. <br>
__Pacu:__ Exploitation framework used to access the security configuration of an AWS account (ben mentioned) <br>

### Conducting Cloud Audits ###
_sadcloud_ == cloud version of a metasploitable machine 👁️

