## Automation Concepts and Technologies ##
FINAL CHAPTER! <br>

### CI/CD ###
__(CI/CD) / Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment:__ software development mode where code is pushed to main central repositionary, where it can be staged and pushed to production. <br>

Github!!! <BR>

### DevSecOps ###
__DevOps:__ organizational culture shift that combines software deployment and system operations by referring to the practice of integrating two disciplines within a company. <br>
- develop and test and integrate all together!
- make security one of the first things that are in mind (shift-left mindset :O)

### IAC ###
__Infrastructure as Code / IaC:__ provisioning architecture in which deployment of resources is preformed by scripted automation and orchestration. <br>
- once a script is KNOWN its good, it can be used for deployment for a ton of machines!!
- consider snowflakes though, machines that are different then the norm, then can cause a LOT of issues. 

### Machine Learning ###
AI is great for heuristic data analysis, and will be able to understand hidden trends in data that are not easy for humans to identify. <br>

### Data Enrichment ###
ML will "enhance" data! think about how the SOAR solution works for ___! its ability to pull related events to a possible incident makes it a lot easier as an analyst to find malicious activity. <br>

tuning is super important for creating less false positives!

### SOAR ###
__Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response / SOAR:__ class of security tools that facilitates IR, threat hunting, security configuration by orchestrating automated playbooks and delivering data enrichments. <br>

### Single Pane of Glass ###
__SPoG / Single Pane of Glass:__ central point of access for all information, tools, and systems.

im sure that by this point you can understand why this can be crucial for big organizations dealing with thousands of endpoints and different devices, services, and applications running on a network and enterprise. <br>

🔍🔎
