## Classifying Threats ##
domains 1,2,3 (security op, vulnerability managment, and IRM)
### Threat Classification ###
__Known Threats:__ any threat that can be identified using basic signature or pattern matching. <br>
__Unknown Threats:__ any threat that can not be identified with basic signatures or pattern matching. <br>
- __Zero-Day Exploits:__ any unknown exploit in the wild that exposes a vulnerability in a software/hardware/firmware that can create complicated problems before people know of the issue existing. <br>
- __Obfusated Malware Code:__ malicious code whose execution the malware author has attempted to hide through various methods, like compression, encryption, or encoding to severely limit attempts to statically analyze the malware. <br>
- __Behavior-based Detection:__ malware detection method that evaluates an object based on its intended action, and make decisions accordingly.
- __Recycled Threats:__ refers to the process of combining and modifying parts of existing malicious code to create new threats that are not as easily identified by automated scanning. <br>
- __Known Unknowns:__ classification of malware that contains obfuscation techniques to circumvent signature-matching and detection. <br>
- __Unknown Unknows:__ classification of malware that contains completely new attack vectors and exploits. <br>
### Threat Actors ###
attacker == threat actor

recall info from sec+!
threat actor types! <br> 
1. Script Kiddie (hes literally me):
low skill, tool users, and will make their attacks obvious and able to see.
2. Hacktivist:
politically-motivated hacker that targets governmental/corp organization.
3. Insider Threat: (intentional v unintentional)
people how have authorized access to an organization network, policies, and access control. 
_include DLP, internal defenses and SIEM quering_
4. Nation-State:
a group of attackers with exceptional capability, funding and organization. they will pick a target and hunt them down... (APT)
5. Competitor:
a rogue business attempting to conduct cyber espionage against an organization. (think coke v pepsi)
6. APT (Advanced Persistent Threat):
an advanced threat that persists in a network in order to continue data exfiltration and attacks.
7. Organized Crime:
hacking and computer fraud with the goal of financial gain.
8. Supply Chain Threats:
attacks on companies tied into multiple parts of different orgs. (recall solarwinds vulnerability)
### Malware ###
when thinking of the more basic types, refer back to sec+ notes!<br>

3 More Advanced Types of Malware Covered: <br>

1. _Commodity_: malicious software applications that are widely available to be sold to be used. (general v targeted)
2. _Zero-day_: a vulnerability that is discovered or exploited before the vendor has released a patch to fix it. 
3. _Command and Control (C2)_: Recall APT's. C2's goal is to be able to create a persistent and quiet line of communication in order to continue data exfiltration from compromise source. 

__Persistence:__ the ability of a threat actor to maintain access in a network without being detected. <br>
### Threat Research ###
research threats is IMPORTANT! <br>

__Reputational Threat Research__: blacklists of known threat sources such as malware signatures, IP addr ranges, and DNS domains (look at sites like TALOS) <br>

__Indicators of Compromise IoC:__ a residual sign that an asset/network has been successfully attacked and compromised. <br>
try looking at ... unauthorized software/files, suspicious emails, sus registry keys and system file changes, excessive bandwidth usage, service disruption, and unknown port/protocol usage. (average run windows key enjoyer?) <br>

__Indicators of Attack (IoA):__ term used for evidence of an ONGOING intrusion attempt. <br>

__Behavior Threat Research:__ term that refers to the correlation of IoC's into attack patterns. <br>
__TTP's__ --> Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures used in historical cyberattacks and adversary actions. <br>

know port hopping and fast flux DNS <br>

__Data Exfiltration:__ the unauthorized transfer of data being done on the network. <br>
### Attack Frameworks ###
Three to Discuss! (remember the tryhackme room!)

__Lockheed Martin Kill Chain__ <br>
stages of which a threat actor progress through an attack
1. Reconnaissance
2. Weaponization
3. Delivery
4. Exploitation
5. Installation 
6. Command & Control 
7. Actions on Objectives
__MITRE ATT&CK Framework__ <br>
__Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis__: model to represent a intrustion event (four way diamond model) <br>
### Indicator Managment ###
sharing intel is awesome (what are some formats) <br>

__STIXv2__ - (Structure Threat Information eXpression):
- a standard terminology for IoC's and ways of indicating relationships between them, included in OASIS cyber threat intell framwork. in JSON format       attribute:pair
SDO's --> STIX domain objects: <br>
observed data, indicators, attack patterns, campaign and threat actors, course of actions (COA) <br>

for the exam, focus on STIXv2 --> it uses JSON vs XML like v1

__Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information (TAXII):__ protocol for supplying codified infor to automate incident detection and analysis. <br>
__OpenIOC:__ A Mandiant framework that uses XML-formatted files for supplying codified info for incident detection and analysis. <br>
__Malware Information Sharing Project (MISP):__ provides a server platform for cyber threat intel sharing, a proprietary format, supports OpenIOC definitions, and can export/import STIX formating over TAXII. <br>

