## Threat Hunting ## 
domain 1 and 2!
### Threat Modeling ###
how do we scope out and understand threats in our working space! <br>

how, when, why are important question to think about! <br>
__Threat Modeling:__ identifying and assessing the possible threat actors and attack vectors that pose a risk to the security of an app, network, or other systems. <br>

think for both the persceptive of an attacker AND a system administrator! some things to consider include... <br>
- Adversary Capability: formal classification of the resources and expertise availble to a particular threat actor.
- Attack Surface: the point at which a network or application receives external connections or IO that are potential vectors to be exploited by a threat actor.
- Attack Vector: a specific path by which a threat actor gains unauthorized access to a system.

### Threat Hunting ### 
__Threat Hunting:__ a cybersecurity technique designed to detect presence of threats that have not been discoverd by normal security monitoring. <br>

steps to threat hunt:
1. _Establish a hypothesis:_ based of prior threat modeling, derive a hypothesis on something that could be occuring on the network based of it's potential likelyhood.
2. _Profiling Threat Actors and Activities:_ create scenarios that may show how an actor would attempt an intrusion and what their objectives might be.
3. _Analysis Network Traffic:_ assume regular systems have failed, look at logs, find malicious behaviors, identified compromised host, and make resolutions to issues.

### Open-source Intelligence ###
shodan mentioned ?! <br>
__OSINT:__ the use of publicly available information, plus tools used to aggregate and search for it. 

#### Google Hacking / Dorking ####
form of OSINT that uses google search operators to locate vulnerable web servers and applications <br>

think about it similiar to query injections, the goal is get information that usually is not display under normal conditions! <br>
__GHDB_:__ Google Hacking Databasde that provides optimized search strings for locating vulnerable websites and services. <br>

shodan.io --> search engine to find vulnerable internet-facing devices like printers, routers, switches, IoT devices ... <br>

#### Profiling Techniques ####
__Profiling:__ who works where?

__Email Harvesting:__ OSINT technique to gather email address from a domain. <br> (think spear phishing!)

centralOps.net - cool tool! <br>
theHarvester <br>

__Social Enginnering__ <br>
#### Harvesting Techniques ####
dns and ip harvesting is big!

__whois:__ public listing of all registered domains and their registered administrators. <br>

__website harvesting:__ technique used to copy the source code of website files to analysis information and vulnerabilities. <br>
nslookup, dig, ... 

#### AbuseIPDB ####
abuse ip database :yum: <br>

__AbuseIPDB:__ community-driven database that keeps track of IP addresses reported for abusive behaviors! <br>

quick solution to a lot of attackers! --> if traffic is coming from reported address, just block it (low chance of false positive!) <br>

#### Deep and Dark Web ####
__Deep Web:__ portion of the web that is not indexed by search enginges, which includes private databases, subscription-based websites, and other content that is not publically-facing. <br>
__Dark Web:__ refers to specific part of the deep web that is used for illegal activities. <br>

### Bug Bounty ### 
__Bug Bounty:__ a way for companies to crowdsource security testing of their software services and applications to identify and address potential security issues. <br>