## Network Forensics ! ##
a personal fav! <3
### Network Forensics Tools ###
network traffic must be captured and its data frames decoded before it can be analyzed. <br>

__SPAN (Switched Port Analyzer):__ allows for the copying of ingress and/or egress communications from one or more switch ports to another. (basically copy all traffic from port and export to another SPAN port) <br>

__Packet Sniffer:__ hardware/software that records data from frames and passes it to netowrk media using a mirrored port or TAP device. <br>

tips for placing network sniffer: place inside protected area of a network behind a firewall, and/or near important servers. <br>
#### tcpdump ####
__tcpdump:__ data-network packet analyzer that runs under CLI and displays TCP/IP that is transmitted or recieved on a network. <br> 

sudo tcpdump -i -__wifi_interface_name__- -w _file_to_write_to_ -x (reveal packet contents) <br>

#### wireshark ####
__wireshark:__ free + open-source GUI-based packet analyzer used for network troubleshooting, analysis, software and communication protocol development, and education. <br>
### Flow Analysis ###
even on a small home network, in a day you could see gigabytes of traffic flow! <br>

__FPC / Full Packet Capture:__ captures the entire packet, including header, payload, for ALL traffic. <br>
__Flow Collector:__ means of recording network traffic's metadata and statistics. <br>

flow analysis is great for establishing patterns, trends, and visualize network information. <br>

good tools include:<br>
__NetFlow:__ cisco-developed, good for capturing network protocol interfaces, version and ip type, source and destination ip and port ... <br>
__Zeek:__ hybrid tool that passively monitors a network, but will only log data of potential interest. performs data normalization in JSON. <br>
__Multi Router Traffic Grapher:__ creates graphs showing traffic flows through network interfaces using SNMP. <br>

### IP and DNS Analysis ###
try to know your IP and DNS address that interact on ur network!

__Known-bad IP Address:__ ip addr or range of addr's that appears on one or more block lists. <br>
__Domain Generation Algorithm DGA:__ method used by malware to evade block list technology by dynamically generating different domain names for C2 networks. <br>
__Fast Flux Network:__ method used by malware, similiar to DGA, where the presence of C2 networks is continually hidden by changing the host server IP address in domain records to avoid block-lists. <br>
Indicators of Attack: <br>
- connections from machine to random looking domain names (series of letters and strings, not human generated or logical)
- high rate of NXDOMAIN errors being captured. that error being that your cache domain record doesnt match up with the actual site, so it throws an error. 
How to Deal with DGA? <br>
Use a secure recursive DNS resolver. This allows one __trusted__ DNS server to communicate with other trusted DNS servers to search for an IP address and return it to the client. <br> 

### URL Analysis ###
you need to be good at analyzing urls!

HTTP Methods: GET, POST, HEAD ... <BR>
a request contains a method, resouce, version number, header, and body <br>
1. GET: easy retrieval resource
2. POST: use to send data for processing
3. PUT: creates/replaces requested resource
4. DELETE: remove resource
5. HEAD: retrieves the header for a resource

?= --> url
& --> concat
\# --> id num

HTTP Response Codes <br>
302 --> moved
400 --> server could not complete the task
401 --> request did not complete authentication credentials
403 --> request did not have sufficient perms
404 --> client request for non-existent resource
200 --> OK
201 --> OK Put
3xx --> redirect
4xx --> error in request
5xx --> issues on server-side
<br>

__Percent Encoding:__ machanism to encode 8-bit characters that have specific meaning in the context of URLs, also known as URL encoding. <br>

for the exam, you WILL need to know a couple, so buckle up! <br>

%3C: <
%3E: >
%20: space
%3D: =
%22: = "
<br>
