## Appliance Monitoring ##
brainnroototootototot<br>
1.1 and 1.3
### Firewall Logs ### 
firewalls = the original goats <br>
line of defense at entry point of network!

__ACL (Access Control List):__ list of permitted and denied network connections based on IP addresses, ports, or applications in use. <br> 
good rules for ACL's:
1. block incoming requests from internal, private, loopback, and multicast ip ranges (stop server side forgery)
2. block incoming request from protocols that should only be used locally (ICMP, DHCP, OSPF, SMB) (no need for external usage)
3. configure IPv6 to either block all IPv6 traffic or allow it to ONLY authorized hosts and ports. <br>

__iptables:__ linux-based firewall that uses syslog (514) file format for its logging. <br>

ex:<br>

'''
Jan 11 05:52:56 lx1 kernal:iptables INPUT __drop__ IN=eth0 OUT=MAC...SRC...DST...LEN...TOS...PREC...TTL...ID...DFPROTO=TCP...SPT...DPT...WINDOW...RES...SYN.... 
''' <br> (drop rule)

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 <br>

__windows firewall:__ windows-based firewall that uses W3C extended log file format. nice to read bc lots of comments + more overhead<br>

information overload = BAD! <br>
Log retention is ALSO a important factor to consider! <br>

__Blinding Attack:__ condition that occurs when a firewall is under-resourced and cannot log data fast enough, therefore some data is missed. <br>

### Firewall Configurations ###
things to consider for firewalls! <br>

firewalls are only a piece to the puzzle of defense, they do a lot, but once something is inside the network, they are virtually useless! <br>

ISP --> (FIREWALL) --> DMZ --> (FIREWALL) --> CORE

__Screened Subnet:__ physical or logical subnetwork that contains and exposes an organizations's external-facing services to an untrusted network like the internet (i.e. --> wev server). <br>

Drop V Reject: <br>
deny rules can either drop a packet or explicity reject it by sending a TCP RST or an ICMP port/protocol unreachable to the requester. <br>

__Firewalkig:__ reconnaissance technique to enumerate firewall configuration and attempt to prove hosts behind it. <br> (where drop v reject becomes important)

other good rule of thumb... block outgoing ICMP status messages! stops firewalking, and in general, ICMP sh

__Egress Filtering:__ applies ACL rules to outgoing traffic to prevent malware from communicating to C2 servers. <br>
good EGRESS rules: <br>
1. only allow whitelisted application ports and destination addresses.
2. restrict DNS lookup to trusted and authorized DNS servers.
3. block access to known bad IP address ranges (known-bad block list)
4. block ALL internet access from host subnets that DONT use it (ICS, SCADA ...)

at the end of the day, anything can act as a C2 server, ive even seen social media commenting used as a form of data exfiltration, so stopping this malicious outbound traffic with just a firewall only is not expected. <br>

__Black Hole:__ means or mitigating DoS/DDoS/Intrusion attacks by silently dropping traffic. when done at the route level, it can be a lot less resource intensive then have the firewall handle it. <br>
__Sinkhole:__ DoS attack mitigation strategy that directs the traffic that is flooding a target IP address to a different network for analysis. <br> 

__Dark Nets:__ unused physical network ports or unused IP address ports or ip addrs space within a local network often used by attackers. <br>
--> think abt unused address in a subnet. best practice security tells us to send this unused addr's to a black hole so they can be potential used as an attack vector. <br>
### Proxy Logs ###
the point of a proxy is to act as a gateway between the unfiltered internet and your internal resources! <br>

proxy types: <br>
- __Forward Proxy:__ server that mediates the communication between client and another server, can filter/modify communications, and provides caching services to improve performance. <br>
- __Non-transparent Proxy:__ a server that redirects requests and responses for clients configured with the proxy address and port. <br>
- __Transparent Proxy:__ a server that redirects requests and response without the client being explicity configured to use it. <br>
- __Reverse Proxy:__ a type of proxy server that protects servers from direct contact with client requests. <br>
proxies are great for understanding user analytics like HTTP requests, what websites are visited, and for how long. <br>
logs from reverse proxy's are a great source of finding initial IoC's, such as malicious code injection in HTTP requests, headers, or urls. <br>

### Web Application Firewall Logs (Layer 7) ###
__WAF:__ firewall specifically designed to protect software running on web servers and their backend databases from code injection and DoS attacks. <br>
ex: Cloudfare! <br>

most web app firewalls will record logs in JSON format. <br>

### IDS and IPS Configuration ###
__IDS:__ software/hardware system that scans, audits, and monitors the security infrastructure for signs of attacks in progress. (DOESNT DO ANYTHING ABT IT) <br>
place inside protected server areas. <br>
__IPS:__ works similiar to an IDS, however, it can additional activity try to stop the attack from happening based on defined rulesets. <br>

__Snort:__ open source software works on windows and some linux os that can operate as an IDS or IPS. <br>
__Zeek:__ an open-source IDS for UNIX/Linux platforms that contains a scripting engine which can be used to act on significant evetns by generating an alert or implementing some sort of shunning mechanism. <br>
__Security Onion:__ an open source linux based platform for security monitoring, ir, and threat hunting that bundles Snort, Suricata, Zeek, Wireshark and ... <br>

__NETWORK MINER!__ (ptsd mentioned) <br>

### IDS and IPS Logs ###
yummer logs time! a log for IDS/IPDS are created every time a rule is matched. <br>

same as every log tools, overlogging is a serious issues. common log outputs include: <br>
- unified output
- syslog
- CSV / Comma Separated Values
- tcpdump (pcap)
- input into a SIEM

rule formats? --> Snort Rule Format: Action Protocol SourceIP Direction DestinationIP Destination Port (RuleOption; RuleOption; ...) <br>


### Port Security Configuration ###
best practices to secure network apps
- Use ACL's to restrict access to designated host devices
- Monitor the number of designated interfaces
- Deny Internet access for remote management

Types of Port Security:
1. __Physical Port Security:__ physical access to switch is limited to only authorized personal (lock it and leave it)
2. __MAC Filtering:__ applying ACL to switch or access point so that only clients with approved MAC addresses can connect to it.
3. __Network Access Control / NAC:__ collective protocols, policies and hardware that authorize and authenticate a user in a network.
### NAC Configuration ###

__NAC:__ provides the means to authenticate users and evaluate device integrity before a connection is permitted. <br> 

802.1X --> standard for encapsulating EAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol) communications over a LAN or wireless LAN and provides port-based authentication. <br>

__Posture Assessment:__ the process of assessing the endpoint for compliance with the health policy (think about network requirements for NJITSecure!) <br>
__Redmediation:__ if posture is bad, how to we move to remediate any issues.
__Pre/Post Admission Control:__ the point at which client devices are granted or denied access based of compliance