## Endpoint Monitoring! ##
a important one imo! 1.1, 1.3 
### Endpoint Analysis ###
how to monitor an endpoint device on the network <br>
Five Types Covered:
1. __Anti Virus (AV):__ software capable of detecting and removing virus infections + other types of malware like worms, trojans, rootkits, adware, spyware, password crackers, network mappers, DoS tools, etc ... <br>
2. __Host-Based IDS/IPS:__ type of IDS/IPS that monitors a computer's system for unexpected behavior or drastic changes to the system's state on an endpoint. <br>
3. __Endpoint Protection Platform:__ a software agent and monitoring system that preforms multiple tasks such as AV, HIDS/HIPS, firewall, DLP (data loss prevention), and file encryption. <br>
4. __EDR / Endpoint Dection and Response:__ a software agent that collectiosn system data and logs for analysis by a monitoring system to provide early detection of threats. <br>
5. __UEBA / User and Entity Behavior Analytics:__ a system that can provide automated identification of suspicious activity by user accounts and computer hosts. <br>

### Sandboxing ###
signature-based malware detection is getting harder every day, so... we need to get our hands dirty. <br>
__Sandboxing:__ a computing environment isolated from a host system to guarantee that the environment runs in a controlled, secure fashion and that communication links between the sandbox and the host are usually completely prohibited. <br>

FLARE VM
Cuckoo
Joe Sandbox

### Reverse Engineering ###
we LOVE rev on everyones soul!<br>
__Reverse Enginnering:__ The process of analyzing the structure of hardware or software to reveal more about how it functions. this is a static analysis! <br>

malware writer HATE people analyzing their code, so they make it hard...

__Disassembler:__ a computer program that translates machine language into assembly language. <br>

this exam covers magic numbers!!! yay my fav<br>
__File Sig/Magic Numbers:__ the first two bytes of a binary header that indicates file type. <br>
__Assembly:__ the native processor instructions used to implement the program. <br>
__Decompiler:__ software that translates a binary or llm language into higher-level code. <br>
strings mentioned :eyes:<br>

__Program Packer:__ a method of compression in which an executable is mostly compressed and the part that isn't compressed contains the code to decompress the executable (IVE SEEN BEFORE!).<br>

### Malware Exploitation ###
__Exploit Technique:__ the specific method by which malware code infects a target host! <br>

today... malware tries to be fileless, running directly in a shell to avoid file-signature based detection entirely. <br>

1. dropper/downloader: malware payload must be able to reach an endpoint.
2. maintain access! C2 control
3. horizontal and vertical reach
4. actions/objectives
5. concealment
think back to kill chain model <br>

Malware Types: <br>
- __Dropper:__ malware designed to install or run other types of malware embedded in a payload on an infected host 
- __Downloader:__ piece of code that connects the internet to retrieve additional tools after the initial infection by a dropper.

__EXAM WARNING:__ for CYSA+, when refering to "shellcode", it does not nessicary mean it was run in a shell, but instead it just being lightweight coded script. <br>

__Living of the Land:__ term that refers to using native tools on a system in order to perform exploits (A LOT HARDER TO DETECT!)<br>
### Behavior Analysis ###
the GOAT karl show this before but ...!
__sysinternals:__  a suite of tools designed to assit with troubleshooting issues with Windows, and many of the tools are suited to investigating security issues. <br>
Process Explorer -- identify known-good! <br>

PID 0 - system idle
PID 4 - sytem
--> kernal level binaries that are used as the parent of the first user-mode process (__session manager SubSystem__ - smss.exe)<br>
--> __Client Server Runtime Subsytem__ (csrss.exe)(normal to see multiple functioning as long as they all have been launched from SystemRoot with no parents)<br>
--> __WININIT__ (winint.exe)(shhould be one for controlling drivers and services.) <br>
--> __Services.exe__ hosts nonboot drivers and backround services, there should only be one instance running. <br>
--> lsass.exe / Local Security Authority Subsystem - handles authetication and authorization services for the system, should only be one instance running as a child of wininit. <br>
--> winlogin.exe - manages user access to the desktop and should only be one instance for each session user with dwm.exe (desktop window manager). <br>

how to deal with _sussy_ services?

1. check how the process interacts with the file system and registry, can you identify more potentially malicious behavior?
2. how is the process being launched?
3. is the image file located in a system folder or a temp folder
4. what files are being manipulated
5. does the process try to restore itself
6. des a system privilege or service get blocked if you try to remove
7. does the process interact with the network?

### EDR Configuration ###
EDR's requires good tuning to reduce the amount of false positive created on a machine. <br>

virustotal = DOPE, should be used to find file signatures, and even partial file signatures. also keep in mind company sharing policy <br>
you can submit malware samples to EDR provides to help them refine file sigs and detection rules. <br>

__Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization / MAEC:__ a standardized language for sharing structured information about malware that is complementary to STIX and TAXII to improve the automated sharing of threat intelligence. <br>

__YARA__ --> good tool for analyzing and identifying malware samples. <br>

### Block Lists and Allow Lists ###
__Blocklisting:__ the process of blocking known applications, services, traffic, and other transmissions to and from your system. <br>
access is permitted UNLESS mentioned on the block list.

good for IR to stop specifically known-bad traffic... <br>
however, it can only covered a much more limited amount of things
- risk of increase in false positives :p
- you dont know everything that should be blocked...

__Allowlisting:__ process of allowing only know applications, services, traffic, and other transmission to and from your system. (mirror of blocklisting)<br>
effective as a fallback posture to use while conducting IR and mantaining critical services. <br>
__WARNING:__ INCREDIBLY RESTRICTIVE ON THE USER AND NETWORK CHANGES. <br>

good rule of thumb, start with a blocklist, but when issues come to arise, have a fallback allowlist ready. <br>

__Execution Control:__ the process of determining what additional software may be installed on a client or server beyond its baseline (think about how third party services were added to endpoint devices at BCA). <br>
--> GOOD USE FOR ALLOWLISTS <br>

__Configuration Management:__ allows for having a process in place of how we are going to update all blocklists and allowlists for any required changes. <br>

#### WINDOWS TOOLS ####
__Software Restriction Policies / SRP:__ Creates an allow list file for different system locations, where your executable and scripts are allowed to be launched from. <br>
__AppLocker:__ Used to improve the configuration options and defaults of SRP. <br>
__Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC):__ allows to create a code integrity policy, which can be used in on its own or in conjunction with AppLocker. <br>
#### LINUX TOOLS ####
__Mandatory Access Control / MAC__
__Linux Security Module / LSM__
__SELinux__
__AppArmor__