## email monitoring ##
brief section but important in large networks! 1.1 1.3 <br>
VERY common attack vector :o
### Email IoC's ###
what are some email indicators of compromise?? <br>
_Spam:_ unsolicited and unwanted junk email sent out in bulk to an indiscriminate recipent list. <br>
_Spear Phishing:_ targeted phishing attack. <br>
_Pretext:_ information used to entice / hook people on to a phishing attempt. <br>
_Impersonation:_ an attack in which an adversary is able to compromise an account and use it. <br>
_Business Email Compromise / BEC:_ an impersonation attack in which the attacker gains control of an employee's account and uses it to convince other employees to perform fradualent actions. (happened at BCA ALL the time lol) <br>
_Email Spoofing:_ make an email source look like it came from someone trusted. this includes OSINT and email writing analysis of the target victim. <br>
_Forwarding:_ phishing email is formatted to appear as if it came part of a reply or forward chain. <br>
### Email Header Analysis ###
general email chain of moving: <br>

MUA - mail user agent <br>
MDA - mail delivery agent <br>
MTA - mail transfer agent <br>

MUA (email browser like gmail) --> (MDA (SMTP) --> MTA (SMTP)) --> (MTA --> MDA --> mailbox --> POP3/IMAP server)

how can this be vulnerable? <br>

1. Attackers exploit the fact that there are actually three sender address fields in an email. <br> 
- display from: good@email.com <evil@bademail.com>
- envelope from: labels that can be hidden from the mail client
- received from/by: list of Mail Transfer Agents that processed email

most email headers are not displayed by email applications on default! <br>

X-Header - Custom Headers configured for SMTP server. <br>
### Email Content Analysis ###
in order for an email to be malicious, it needs a payload within the email! <br>

__MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions):__ allows bodys of an email to support different formats, such as HMTL, rich text format (RTF), binary data encoded as Base64 ASCII characters, and attachments. <br>
three types of methods ... 
_Exploit_ - message data that contains scripts or objects that targets some vulnerability in the mail client. <br>
_Attachment:_ - message that contains a file attachment in hope that the user wil execute it or open it. <br>
_Embedded Link_ <br>

--> email signatures is a good way to help verify is something is real or malicious. <br>

### Email Server Security ###
how can we implement security for our email servers

__SPF / Sender Policy Framework:__ DNS record identifying host authorized to send mail for the domain with only one being allowed per domain. <br>
EXAMPLE -->     TXT @ v=spf1   mx include:_spf.google.com include:email.freshdesk.com -all       <br>

__DKIM / DomainKeys Identified Mail:__ provides a cryptographic authentication mechanism for mail utilizing a public key published as a DNS record. used to make sure that the mail was not modified during transfer. <br>

__DMARC / Domain-Based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance:__ framework for ensuring proper application of SPF an DKIM utilizing a policy published as a DNS record. <br>

__Cousin Domains:__ a Domain Name System (DNS) domain that looks similar to another name when rendered by a Mail User Agent MUA. <br>

goodsite.com v goobsite.com <br>

### SMTP Log Analysis ### 
how to look at email server logs?     request - response <br>
- time of req/res
- address of recipient
- size of message
- **status code**

Important Status Codes to know for Analysis: <br>
* __220__ - indicates server is ready
* __250__ - indicates a message has been accepted
* 421 - indicates the service is not available
* 450 - indicates that the server can not access the mailbox to deliver a message
* 451 - indicates the local server aborted the action
* 452 - indicaates local server has insufficient storage space

kinda similiar to http!

### Email Message Security ###
why MIME when we can ... <br>

__S/MIME (Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extnesions):__ an email encryption standard that adds digitial signatures and public key cryptography to traditional MIME communications. <br>

every user must have public/private key! user must first send pub key and signature --> other must verify --> then response with other certificate --> you verify --> can begin communication now! <br>

use YOUR public key for your signature!
gives both integrity AND non-rediputation! <br>

use OTHER public key for sended messaged!
gives confidentility! <br>
