# governance and compliance #
__def: overall management of an org's it infra, policy, procedures, and operations.__<br>
IT infrastructure == Business Objectives    <br>

these changes can come from introducing to new service/platform, or even changes to data compliance with government.

## governance structures ##
1. Boards: a group of individuals elected by shareholders to oversee management of an organization.
2. Committees: subgroups of a board of directors, each with a specific focus.
3. Government Entities: they establish laws and regulations that orgs must comply with. (FTC, FDA ...)
4. Centralized Structures: decision-making authoriy is concentrated at top levles of management.
## policies ##
Acceptable Use/AUP: document that outlines the do's and don'ts for users when interacting within an org's IT systems+resources.<br>
Information Security: outlines how an org protects its information assets from threats.<br>
Business Continuity: focuses on how an org will continue mission critical operations during+after disruptions.<br>
Disaster Recovery: focuses on how to recover IT systems and data after disaster.<br>
Incident Response: plan/outline for handling security incidents.<br>
SDLC/software development lifecycle: guides how software is developed within an org.<br>
Change Management: aims to ensure that changes are implemented in a controlled+coordinated manner, minimizing risks of disruptions.<br>
## standards ##
__def: provide framework for implementing security measures, ensuring that all aspects of an org's security is addressed.__<br>
- Password Standards: dictate complexity of passwords + password storage tools.
- Access Control Standards: how has what access to certain resources. least privilege
- Physical Control Standards: physical measure of security assurance.
- Encryption Standards: ensure data intercepted is properly encryption to a certain standard.
## procedures ## 
__def: steps that outline what to do in a certain event.__<br>
common ones!<br>
- change management: how to tackle changes in a organization.
- on/off boarding: orientation, exit interviews, ...
- playbooks: checklist of actions to detect/respond to a specific type of incident (think like FAQ's). good for time critical tasks.
## governance considerations ##
stuff to consider: <br>

regulatory considerations: general regulations for a wide range of areas. think like *GDPR* in EU (general data protection regulation)<br>
legal considerations: similiar, but with a focus in areas such as contract law, intellectial property, and corperate law.<br>
industry considerations: standards of industry. less of a binding thing, and more of what most people do; looked down apon if not followed. <br>
local/regional/national/global considerations: things in certain geographical area that can effect your org. <br>

conflict of laws is also important to take note of!
## compliance ##
making sure people follow guidelines!!! <br><br>

revision: collect + present data to demonstrate adherence to compliance frameworks. <br>
*internal v external*<br>
monitoring: regularly reviewing to ensure compliance is still being followed. <br>

can/is usually automated!

## non-compliance... ##
* fines
* sanctions
* reputational damage
* loss of license
* contractual impacts
