## asset and change management ##
//more then 40 through the course, keep it up!
//domain 1 and domain 4
__asset management: systematic process of developing, operating, maintaining, and selling assets in a effective manner.__
- by management and know our assets, we increase our security through knowledge and structure processes. <br>
__change management: structured approach to transitioning individuals, teams, and orgs from a current to desired state.__
- by having a structured approachs for changes in an org, from off-boarding, implementing new software, hardware, etc... increase security. <br>

## acquistion and procurement ##
different meanings so take notes! <br>

acquistion: process of obtaining goods and services. <br>
procurement: *encompasses the full process* of acquiring goods/services, which includes all preceding steps. <br>

__options for acquistions:__
- company card: good for small items needed with some level of urgency, like toner/ink for a printer.
- individual purchase: employee buys somehting for company's behalf, later seeking reimbursement from employer. usually used in travel
- purchase order / PO: issued by some type of purchasing department, serves as a document for a purchase of usually a larger size/quantity for the organization. exaclty how the IT office i worked at did it! usually has an approval process, and the order is more of a contract saying, hey i want to buy blah blah amount of stuff within the next __ days, and there is a payment promised (legally).

## mobile asset deployments / MAD ##
//bloons td 6 core
__three maing types of mobile assets for an organization:__ <br>
* BYOD (Bring Your Own Device): permits employee to use personal devices for work purposes.
*pros: people like BYOD, easy and cheap for the organization bc they dont have to provide a work device.*<br>
*cons: since it is a personal device, employees choose their own security of their devices, and they also exist as much off your network as on it, and can introduce threats into your workplace enviroment.*<br>
* COPE (Corporate-Owned, Personally Enabled): involves the company providing a mobile device to employee for both personal and work usage. like a company car.
*pros: standardizes devices --> standardizes security! 🧠*<br>
*cons: can be very expensive to issue devices for all staff members. additionally employees will concerns about personal information / privacy.*<br>
* CYOD (Choose Your Own Device): middle ground between two options, allow employees to choose company approved devices. like my IT experience actually!
*pros: get a device that employees want to use, both also has a higher level of standardization then a BYOD model.* <br>
*cons: similiar to COPE, concerns of privacy, and high cost for company to issue out these devices.* <br>

in general, there are three needs that these models try to tackle: <br>
______________________________________________________________________
|       |   cost    |   security    |   employee satisfaction   |
|  BYOD |    X      |               |            X              |         
|  COPE |           |       X       |          kinda            |
|  CYOD |           |       X       |          kinda            |
______________________________________________________________________

*security issue may raise cost of BYOD*
*COPE and CYOD have a high initial price investment, but may be cheaper in the long term.*

## asset management ##
two main areas:   assignment and accounting 🔥

assignment --> what assets are delegated to who? <br>
classification --> criteria based on function, value or other relevant parameters. <br>
monitoring --> proper accountability and optimal use of each asset. <br>
enumeration --> identifying and couting assets, usually in large orgs in times of asset procurement or retirement. <br>

*all seen in practice before in work! some type of management system to keep track of all tech devices, where, when, and lifecycle stage.*

## asset disposal and decommissioning ##
in good practice, please dont just "throw" data away, think of that as just moving it somewhere else, waiting for someone to find it.<br>

1. Sanitization: the thorough process of making data inaccessible and irretrievable from a storage medium using traditional forensic methods.
Overwriting: its either 1, 7, or 35 passes depending on the value of the asset.<br>
Degaussing: a machine that utilizes a strong magnetic field that can disrupt the magnet domains of hard drives, making them irretrivable.<br>
Secure Erase: completely erasing dat from a storage device, leaving no remains. there are some flaws, and can be slow<br>
Cryptographic Erase: encrypt with keys, then delete keys, making data virtually irretrivable very quickly, without need to delete everything.<br>
2. Destruction: ensuring the physical device is beyond recovery or reuse.
some methods include...     Shredding   Pulverizing    Melting   Incinerating <br>
most secure, but renders physical device unusable.<br>
3. Certification: act of proof that data/hardware has been securely disposed of.
utilize auditing tools!<br>

*the more you store, the more you need to secure*

## change management ##
change is necessary in all businesses!

__CAB (Change Advisory Board): representatives from different parts of the org responsible for evaluation of proposed changes.__<br>

5 main steps in change management process:<br>
- Preparation: assess the now, recognize the need for change.
- Vision for Change: clear description for the proposed future state of what change will do.
- Implementation: putting plan/change into action.
- Verification: measure the change's effectiveness and compare to before.
- Documentation: create a record of the entire change process.

### tips on good change management! ###
1. Use a scheduled maintence timeframe    (3:00AM - 5:00AM Saturday EST)
2. Create a backout plan --> way to revert to normal
3. Result testing
4. Use a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)

### implications of a change ###
__Allow and Deny Lists__: when making changes, keep track of allow and deny list to not potential lose critical services or give services accidentally to unauthorized entities.<br>
__Restricted Activity__: know what services have restrictions before implementing changes, like service maintance availability<br>
__Complex Applications Interplay__: know what changes might effect with other things. want to update a domain controller, think downtime, data lost in transit, etc...<br>
__Legacy Applications__: maybe in use because of users liking it, but they tend to be sensitive to change, and minor updates on a system can cause them to fail. think older microsoft office, minitab, or Quikbook.<br>
__Dependencies__: Some programs may require others to be on certain version to work, so mapping dependencies of programs before a change occurs is critical to avoiding vulnerabilities or downtime.<br>

## summary ##
asset management --> tracking and accounting of data and assets within an org.<br>
this comes through good acquistions processes, where everything is accounted for and track for later, as well as good mobile asset deployment through various methods like BYOD, COPE, CYOD.
change management --> systematic way of handling changes in an org.<br>
be prepared, have a vision, implement change, verify it was a good one, and document for the future.
think about the implications of introduction a change: dependencies, legacy pps, restricted activity, or allow/deny lists.
