## audits and assessment ##
goal of audits!
- identify vulnerabilities 
- validating security measures
- maintaining compliance

domain 5 topics

## internal audits and assessments ##
__internal audit:__ systematic evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls, compliance, and integrity of information systems and processes. 
- with internal audits, you must take into account compliance with governing laws and regulations, as well as having an audit committee / group of people responisble for the supervising of the org's auditing and compliance functions. <br>
__internal assessment:__ an in-depth analysis to identify and assess potential risks and vulnerabilities in an org's information systems.
- these more serve as a form of a self-assessment, and gauge the adherence of particular standards or regulations at the *organizational* level. <br>

## external audits and assessments ##
__external audit:__ systematic evaluation carried out by external entities to assess an organization's information systems and controls. 
- done by a third party, achieving non-bias and assuring that governance issues and compliance is being achieved. <br>
__external assessments:__ detailed analysis conducted by independent entities to identify vulnerabilities and risks. 
- meant to examine and look for vulnerabiltities easily visible from an external eye.

## pentesting ##
__pentesting:__ simulated cyber attack that helps in the assessment of computer systems for exploitable vulnerabilities. <br>

--> __physical pentest:__ testing a org's physical security through testing locks, access cards, security cameras, and other protective measures at this level. <br>

--> __offensive pentest / red teaming:__ proactive approach that involves use of attack techniques, akin to real cyber threats, that seek and exploit system vulnerabilities. <br>

--> __defensive pentesting / blue teaming:__ reactive approach that entails fortifying systems, identifying and addressing attacks, and enhancing incident response times. <br>

--> __integrated pentesting / purple teaming:__ combination of blue and red team. <br>

### reconnaissance in pentesting ###
__reconnaissance:__ initial phase where critical information about a target system is gathered to enhance an attack's effectiveness and success. <br>

two types: <br>
*active* --> direct engagement with the target system, offering more information, but comes with higher detection risk, and can lead to ip firewall ban. <br>
*passive* --> indirect engagement not alerting targeted systems. <br>

holy cow metasploit is such a cool tool!!

### attestation of findings ###
__attestation:__ process that involves the formal validation or confirmation provided by an entity that is used to assert the accuracy and authenticity of specific information. <br>
- documentation is SUPER import for audits, pentesting, and assessment.
- show ur work type of thing!
- letter of attestation for pentesting.