## cyber resilience and redundency ##
__resilience:__ entities ability to continuously deliver the intended outcome despite adverse cyber events. <br>
__redundency:__ involve the use of additional equipment, systems, or processes to ensure continued functionality if the primary ones fail.

think ***FAULT TOLERANCE***, just as important in networking as in maintaining security!

## high availability ##
__def: the ability of a service to continuously be available by minimizing the downtime.__ <br>

uptime --> number of minutes/hours that a system remains online over a given period, usually expressed as a percentage. the standard is the 5 9's --> 99.999% <br>

that five nines standard only leaves about 5 minutes in a year where your service can be down, so how is maintainence other processes done?
- *load balancing:* the process of distributing workloads across multiple computing resources.
- *clustering:* the use of multiple computers, multiple storage devices, and redundent network connections that all work together as a single system.
- *redundency:* the duplication of critical components or functions of a system with the intention of increasing reliability in a system. if one goes down, the other can maintain the critical service.

## data redundancy ##
Important to know! <br>
__RAID (Redundant Array of Independent Disks):__ combines multiple physical storage devices into a recognized single logical storage device. <br>

commons ones include --> RAID 0, 1, 5, 6, and 10.
* 0: provides data striping across multiple disks to increase performance. NOT a data redundancy solution!!!
* 1: mirrors data for redundancy across two drives or SSD's. provides great fault tolerance!
* 5: stripes data with parity, using at least three storage devices. if a drive fails, the other two can solve what is missing and continue functionality as normal while a drive is swapped out --> "hot swap". 
* 6: uses data striping across multiple devices with two pieces of parity data. requires at least 4 disks of storage, but now two disks can go down and data redundancy is still maintained.
* 10: think not as "10" but 1 0 --> combines RAID 1 and RAID 0 features, with mirrored arrays in a striped setup.

three categories to know: <br>
- Failure-resistance: use of redundent storage to withstand hardware malfunction without data loss. __RAID 1 and RAID 10__
- Fault-tolerant: uninterrupted operation during hardware failures. __1, 5, 6, and 10__
- Disaster-tolerant: broader level, that protects data from catastrophic events.

## capacity planning ##
__def: strategic planning to meet future demands cost-effectively.__<br>
4 things:
- people
- technology
- infrastructure
- processes
use common sense im ngl

## powering data centers ##
*5 states of power to consider in a data center enviroment:* 
* Surges: a small and unexpected increase in the amount of __voltage__ that is being provided. US = 120V default
* Spikes: a short transient voltage that is usually caused by a short circuit/tripped breaker/outage/lighting strike.
* Sag: a small and unexpected decrease in the amount of voltage that is being provided.
* Undervoltage events / blowout: voltage is reduced to lower levels, usually for a longer period of time.
* Full power loss events: occurs when there is a total loss of power for a period of time.

Tools to maintain reliable power: <br>
__Line Conditioners:__ overcomes small/minor fluctations in the power being recieved by a given system. <br>
__Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS):__ device that provides emergency power to a system when normal input source has failed. <br>
__Generator:__ machine that converts mechanical energy into electrical for use in an external circuit. <br>
__Power Distribution Center (PDC):__ central hub where power is recieved and distributed. <br>

## data backups ##
golden rule to abide to: <br>
dont keep all eggs in one basket --> __dont store all data on one device or drive.__ <br>

*onsite v offsite:* where data backups are physically being stored. <br>
*frequency:* how much data is the company ok with losing, how much money can you allocate to creating backups. <br>
*encryption:* this data is just as important to protect as your realtime information. <br>
*snapshots:* point-in-time copies of data that capture a state of data. only notes changes <br>
*recovery:* how to regain access to data after data loss/system failure event. <br>
*jornaling:* maintaining a record of every change made to an organization's data over time. <br>

## continuity of operations plan ##
__def: ensures an org's ability to recover from disruptive/disaster events.__<br>
__BCP__ --> business continuity plan: response to disruptive events <br>
__DRP__ --> disaster recovery plan: subset of the BCP, how to resume operations after disasterious events. <br>

these plans should cover EVERYTHING for a business, not just online, network operations!!

## redundant site considerations ##
what to consider...
- Hot Site: fully equiped backup facility ready to take over in case of a primary site failure. best suited for the most mission critial items.
- Warm Site: partially equiped site that can become operational within days. better / more cost efficent for non-mission critical items.
- Cold Site: no immediate equipment, but can be transformed into a functional backup facility.
- Mobile Site: versatile site that utilizes independent and portable units like trailers or tents to deliver recovery capabilities.
- Virtual Site: utilizes cloud-based enviroments and offers highly flexible approach to redundancy.
find the best solution for you! 

## resilience and recovery testing ##
__resilience testing:__ assessing system ability to endure and adjust to disruptive events. <br>
__recovery testing:__ assessing systems ability to return to regular function following a disruptive event. <br>
like a business's fire drill. <br>

*tabletop exerise:* talking about what would happen in simulated event, but not actually occuring.
- promotes team building and identifys gaps in response plans through group discussion. 
*failover test:* verifies seemless system transition to a backup for uninterrupted functionality during disasters. <br>
