## security architecture ##
// important chapter! // <br>
__Security Architecture:__ design, structure and behavior of an org's information security enviroment.<br>
*Some important considerations in this chapter:*
- on premise vs cloud based enviroments
- cloud security
- virtualization and containers
- serverless
- microservices
- network infrastruture and SDN's

## On Premise versus the Cloud ##
recently there has been the shift from on premise network enviroments to the cloud, by why? <br>

key terms: <br>
__Responsibility Matrix:__ outlines the division of responsibilities between the cloud service provider and the customer. <br>
__Third Party Vendor:__ provide specialized services that enhance the functionality, security, and efficiency of cloud solutions.<br>
__Hybrid Solutions:__ combining on-prem infrastructure, private, and public cloud services.<br>
- example: most critical infrastructure like employee/customer information is held on premise, but we utilize cloud based solution for certain ascepts of IT support.

__On Premis Solutions:__ computer infrastructure that is held in enviroment owned by the organization.<br>

## cloud security ## 
items to discuss:
- Shard Physical Server Vulnerabilities: usually multiple people/org's share server/components, so if one is compromise, vulnerabilities can arise.
- Inadequate Virtual Environment Security: Can lead to unauthorized access, data breaches, and other security incidents. 
- Inadequete User Access Management: leads to unauthorized access. happens with bad policies, passwords, or lack of user activity monitoring.
- Lack of Up-to-date Security Measures: not being up to data --> leaving system vulnerability to new threats on older versions.
- Single Point of Failure: leads to complete system outages affecting all users. go over chapter 14 material for more on depth on preventention such as failover tests, etc...
- Weak Authentication and Encryption Practices: unauthorized access to cloud systems.
- Unclear Policies and Data Remnants: 

## virtualization and containerization ##
lots of personal experience with this stuff: <br>

__virtualization:__ emulation of servers, computers, OS ...   (heavy) <br>
__containerization:__ packages for services, processes, ...   (light) <br>

Virtual Machines --> have a hypervisor <br>

Enterprise > **type1:* runs on top of host hardware and OS, is a hardware service. 
- faster and efficent
SOHO > *type2:* runs within host hardware. (think Oracle VM Vbox)
- quicker to initialize

containerization > running applications within isolated spaces in a machine. <br>
*some technologies:* docker, kubernetes, and red hat openshift. <br>

not undefeatable though!
- *VM Escape:* occurs when an attacker is able to break out the isolated vmachine space.
- *Privilege Elevation:* occurs when a user is able to gain the ability to run function as a higher level user. (guest > root)
- *Live VM Migration:* when a vmachine needs to move from one physical host to another.
- *Resource Reuse:* when system resources like memory or processing power are reused.

## Serverless Computing ##
__Serverless:__ model where responsiblity of managing servers, databases, and some application logic is shifted away from the developers. <br>

really big today, with examples like AWS Lambda, and Google Cloud Functions, where most of the back end operations are handle by the provider, not the developer. <br>

*pros:* reduction to operation cost and time! offers automatic scaling. focusing on the core product. <br>
*cons:* vendor lock-in... may end up stuck with a vendor with proprietary interfaces. new field with best practices still evolving. <br>

## microservices ##
__Microservices:__ type of architecture that splits task in to a bunch of small automated services. <br>
- scalable, flexible, resilience, faster deployment and updates, works independently of each other...
- introduces new level of complexity, data management, network latency, and potentially lower security.

## network infrastructure ##
things to consider for best practice with network infrastructure security: <br>
- Physical Seperation (Air Gapped): isolation of a network by removing direct/indirect connections to other networks. think military, or nuclear, where these types of infrastructure are isolated from the rest of the internet.
- Logical Seperation: creating boundaries within a network, restricting access to certain areas. think firewalls, VLANS, or subnets, need for when businesses need connections to the greater internet, but are still maintaining best security practices.

## Software-Defined Networking ##
__def: enables efficient network configuration to improve performance and monitoring.__<br>
three plans:
- Data Plane: also the forwarding plane, responsible for handling packets and decision making based on protocols.
- Control Plane: brain of network, decides where traffic is sent and is centralized in a SDN infrastructure.
- Application Plane: the place where all network applications interacting with the SDN controller reside.

low key important for my network class too lol!

## Infrastructure as Code (IaC) ##
__IaC:__ method in which IT infrastructure are defined in code/scripts that can be versioned, tested, and audited. <br>
YAML, JSON, ...

elimates > _Snowflake System:_ a config that lacks consistency that might introduce risks. <br>
__Idempotence:__ the ability of an operation to produce the same results as many times as it is executed. <br>

becomes more complex, shift to different type of infrastructure, can be easily misconfigured.

## centralized v decentralized architectures ##
__centralized:__ all computing functions are coordinated and managed from one single location or authority. <br>
- pros: efficient and easy to control, consistent, cost effective. 
- cons: introducs a single point of failure, can be hard to scale, higher security risks.
__decentralized:__ computing functions are distributed across multiple systems or locations. <br>
- pros: resiliency, scalability, flexible
- cons: security risk (multiple entry points), management challenges, and data inconsistency.

## IoT / Internet of Things ##
//lots of personal experience again! <br>
__IoT:__ refers to the network of physical items with embedded systems that allow for connection and data exchange. <br>

*Hub:* central point connecting all IoT devices and sends commands to them.<br>
*Smart Devices:* everyday objects enhanced with computing capabilities and Internet connectivity.<br>
*Wearables:* subset of smart devices designed to be worn on the body.<br>
*Sensors:* detect changes in the enviroment and transform them into analyzable data.<br>

these devices usually are more vulnerable then other types of computing hardware due to weak default settings that do not go unchanged, or poorly configured network services, so BE careful when introducing them to a secure enviroment. (least priv...)<br>

## ICS and SCADA ##
__ICS / Industrial Control Systems:__ control systems used to monitor and control industrial processes ranging from simple to complex systems. <br>
__SCADA / Supervisory Control and Data Acquistion:__ a type of ICS used to monitor and control geographically dispersed industrial processes.<br>

these usually run on unupdates software, so they tend to be less secure that other network infrastructure discussed.<br>

## Embedded Systems ##
__Embedded Systems:__ specialized computing component designed to perform dedicated functions within a larger structure. <br>

like OS's designed for a sole purpose, less things it does and needs, the more secure you can make, as long as software is properly update and managed!

## summary ##
there a lot of different security architectures you can implement into a organization, like ICS and SCADA, utilizing SDN's, virtualization, containerization, cloud based services, centralized and decentralized. All of these come with their pros and cons, ranging from security, flexiability, scalability, etc...

