# security infrastructure #
probably like the second biggest chapter, so really take note to the information in this chapter! <br>

__definition: combination of hardware, software, policies and practices that orgs use to protect information.__<br>

## ports and protocols!! ##
__Port: logical communication endpoint that exist on a computer/server.__<br>

*either INBOUND or OUTBOUND ports* 
- inbound: open and waiting/listening for a connection to a client.
- outbound: opened by a client in order to call out to a service/service that is listening for a connection.
**Ports are numbered from 0 - 65,535 exclusive:**
0-1023: Well Known Ports --> are assigned by Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).<br>
- FTP: 20/21 |TCP|, file transfer protocol, not encrypted by default.
- SSH, SCP, SFTP: 22 |TCP|, secure remote terminal access with ftp capabilities.
- Telnet: 23 |TCP|, deprecated verision of SSH basically, insecure remote control, not encrypted.
- SMTP: 25 |TCP|, simple mail transfer protocol, send mail over network.
- DNS: 53 |UDP|, domain name system, converts domain names into ip addresses.
- TFTP 69 |UDP|, trivial file transfer protocol, lightweight file transfer, send config/network files.
- HTTP: 80/8080 |TCP|, used for insecure web browsing.
- Kerberos: 88 |UDP|, network authenication protocol.
- POP3: 110 |TCP|, post office protocol 3, responsible for retrieving mail from a server.
- NNTP: 119 |TCP|, network news protocol, used for accessing newsgroups.
- RPC: 135 |BOTH|, facilitates communication between different system processes.
- NetBIOS: 137,138,139 |BOTH|, networking protocol suite.
- IMAP: 143 |TCP|, internet message access protocol, allows access to email messages on a server.
- SNMP: 161 |UDP|, Simple Network Management Protocol, manages network devices.
- SNMP Trap: 162 |UDP|, sending SNMP trap messages, which are like alerts from end devices to main.
- LDAP: 389 |TCP|, lightweight directory access protocol, facilitates directory services.
- HTTPS: 443 |TCP|, hypertext protocol secure, provides secure web communications.
- SMB: 445 |TCP|, server message block, used for file and printer sharing over a network.
- SMTPS: 465 and 587 |TCP|, secure version of SMTP, more secure mail protocol. use SSL or TLS.
- Syslog: 514 |UDP|, used for sending system log messages.
- LDAPS: 636 |TCP|, LDAP communication over secure medium, like SSL or TLS
- IMAPS: 993 |TCP|, IMAP secure, again over a SSL/TLS connection, encrypted.
- POP3S: 995 |TCP|, POP3 secure, uses SSL/TLS

1024-49,151: Registered Ports --> registered are assigned to proprietary protocals.<br>
- Microsoft SQL: 1433 |TCP|, facilitates communication with microsoft SQL server.
- RADIUS TCP: 1645 and 1646 |TCP|: used for remote authentication, authorization, and accounting AAA.
- RADIUS UDP: 1812 and 1813 |UDP|: UDP version of RADIUS, defined by IETF.
- RDP: 3389 |TCP|, remote desktop protocol, enables remote desktop access.
- Syslog TLS: 6514 |TCP|, secure syslog that use ssl/tls to encrypt packets with certificate before going to syslog collector.

49152-65535: Dynamic and Private Ports --> can be used by any application without being registered by IANA.<br>
_Protocal:_ rules governing device communications and data exchange.<br>

## firewalls ##
__Firewall:__ safeguards networks by monitoring and controlling traffic based on predefined security rules. can be hardware or software! <br>
__Screened Subnet (Dual-homed Host):__ acts as a security barrier between external untrusted networks and internal trusted networks, using a protected host with security measures like packet-filtering firewalls.<br>

*the more scrutinizing a firewall is, the more it will impact your network speed*<br>

Some Firewall Types:
- __Packet Filtering__: checks packet headers for traffic allowed based of ip address and port numbers. really efficent, but minimun level of security. can't stop attacks like IP/Mac address spoofing, or TCP handshake attacks, because it only checks against limited things in the packet header. also known as a layer 4 firewall.
- __Stateful__: monitors all inbound and outbound network connections and requests.
- __Proxy__: acts as a intermediary between internal and external connections on behalf of other endpoints. this creates a decent choke point though in a network.
    * Circuit: operates at level 5 of the OSI model (SOCKS): dealing with socket connections, etc...
    * Application: conducts various proxy functions for each type of application at Layer 7 of OSI model.
- __Kernal Proxy__: has minimal impact on the network performance while throughly inspecting packets across all layers.
- __Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW)__: aims to address limitations of traditional firewalls by being more aware of applications and their *behaviors*. in short, they are pretty awesome due to being very application aware, but can create vendor dependency issues, due to this tailoring effect.
- __Unified Threat Management Firewall (UTM)__: provides the ability to conduct multiple securit functions in a single appliance. ALL IN ONE device --> firewall, IPS, antivirus and spam, VPN capabilities, content filtering, load balancing, and DLP. As cool as this is, consolidating all of these services into one creates a __SINGLE POINT of Failure__... think of it as a jack of all trades of machine, very efficent for pricing and effort required for installing, but master of none of its capabilities.
- __Web Application Firewall (WAF)__: focuses on the inspection of HTTP/HTTPS traffic. these attempt to stop common web attacks like cross site scripting SQL, DoS'ing, directory attacks, the whole shebang.

### configuring a firewall ###
__Access Control List (ACL)__: a rule set that is placed in firewalls, routers, and other network infrastructure devices that permit or allow traffic through a particular interface. <br>
configured either a web based GUI or terminal based connection (SSH).

*ALWAYS make sure to include/have a deny all rule at the end/bottom of the ACL, think zero trust, anything that is not need should be denied!* <br>

ACL list include:
- Type:
- Source:
- Destination:
- Action:

example: (cisco CLI) access-list 100 permit tcp 192.168.0.0 0.0.0.255 any eq 22 <br>

## Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems, IDS and IPS ##
*Difference Between IDS and IPS*:
* IDS: detection system, simply logs and alerts network adminstrator.
* IPS: preventation system, logs, alerts, and takes some type of preventive action.

3 Main types for Both IDS and IPS:
- Network-Based: Monitors traffic coming in and out of a network, usually installing on mirroring port to see all of network traffic.
- Host-Based: Looks for suspicious network traffic going to or from a single server/endpoint device.
- Wireless: detects attempts of DoS/DDoS of services on a wireless network

Signature v Anomaly Based IDS/IPS:
- Signature: analysis traffic based on defined signatures of attacks in database, but failed to prevent zero day attacks. (no signature will exist!). need to be constantly.
    * __Pattern:__ focuses on steps of pattern.
    * __Stateful:__ compares with know system baseline.
- Anomaly: Analyzes traffic and compares it with a normal baseline of traffic to determine whether a threat is occuring.
    * __Statistical__
    * __Rule/Heuristic__
    * __Protocol__
    * __Application-Based__
    * __Traffic__

With IPS systems, it is important to keep a good balance between false positives and false negatives, to both prevent as much malicious activity as possible, without significatly impact network performance. <br>

## Network Appliances ##
__Network Appliances:__ dedicated hardware devices with pre-installed software that is specifically designed to provide specific networking services. <br>

4 Main Types Needed to Know:
- *Load Balancers:* critical component in any high-availiblity network or system that is designed to distribute network or application traffic across multiple servers. a more complex version of a load balancer would be a __ADC__, which comes with more tools to help with load balancing on a network.
- *Proxy Servers:* Intermediary between a client and a server to provide various functions like content caching, request filtering, and login management. additionally provides a level of obscurity between the critical service and the users.
- *Sensors:* designed to monitor, detect, and analyze traffic and data flow across a network in order to identify any unsual activities, potential security breaches, or performance issues. this is what IDS and IPS are.
- *Jump Servers:* dedicated gateway used by system administrators to securely access devices located in different security zones within the network.

## Port Security ##
__Port Security:__ common security feature found on network switches that allows administrators to restrict which devices can connect to a specific port based on the network interface card's MAC address. operate at layer 2 of OSI <br>

*ARP Flooding/Spoofing:* the malicious act of flooding a switch with arp request, which overfill and overload the switches CAM table, bypass MAC addressing importance in maintaining communications, and fooling the switch into send packets to unauthorized users. <br>

Port security can mitigate these attacks via associating a specific interface on a switch with certain MAC addresses, stoping people that are not authorized from making communication with the switch. Even this may not be enough to stop a smart attacker that is spoofing their own MAC address to be on the approved list of devices, so additionally use tools like 802.1x authentication, and extensible authentication protocol. <br>
__802.1x__: framework that is used for port-based authenication of both wired and wireless networks. 
* Supplicant
* Authenticator
* Authenication Service

## Securing Network Communications ##
Three Main Technologies: <br>
__VPN__<br>
*Virtual Private Network*: extends a private network over a public one, enabling users to securely send and recieve data. <br>
- Site-to-Site VPN: establishes secure tunnels over the public internet for interconnecting remote sites.
- Client-to-Site VPN: connects individual devices directly to the org's headquarters, enabling remote users to access the network.
- Clientless VPN: secures remote access through brower-based VPN tunnels without needing client software or hardware configuration.
- Full Tunnel: maximizes security by encrypting all traffic to the headquartes while integrating clients with the network. better security.
- Split Tunnel: Divides traffic and network request and then routes them the apporopriate network. better performance.

__TLS__<br>
*Transport Layer Security*: a protocol that provides cryptographic security for secure connections and is used for secure web browsing and data transfer. <br>
*DTLS*: udp-based version of tls that offers the same security level as TLS while maintaining faster operations.<br>

__IPSec__<br>
*Internet Protocol Security*: a protocol suite for secure communication through authentication and data encryption in IP networks. most common protocol suite used for VPN connections today.<br>
- Confidentiality
- Integrity
- Authentication
- Anti-replay

5 Steps to Establish a IPSec connection:
1. Request to start Internet Key Exchange (IKE).
2. IKE Phase 1: verify keys adn establish secure channel for negotiation.
3. IKE Phase 2: negotiating security association parameters and finish establishing secure tunnel.
4. Data Transfer: sending data through secure tunnel create in steps 1-3.
    * _Transport Mode_: employs the original IP header, ideal for client-to-site vpns and is advantageous when dealing with MTU constraints. (maximum tranmission unit). def --> 1500 bytes.
    * _Tunneling Mode_: employed for site-to-site vpns and adds an extra header that can increase packet size and exceed the MTU.
5. Tunnel Termination: either through mutual agreement or non-responsive termination.

__Authenication Header (AH)__: offers connectionless data integrity and data origin authenication for IP datagrams using cryptographic hashs as identification information. <br>
__Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)__: employed fro providing authentication, integrity, replay protection, and data confidentiality by encrypting the packet's payload.<br>


## SD_WAN and SASE (Secure Access Service Edge) ##
__Software Defined Wide Area Network__: virtualized approach to managing and optimizing wide area network connections to efficiently route traffic between remote sites, data centers, and cloud environments.<br>
__Secure Access Service Edge__: used to consolidate numerous networking and security functions into a single cloud-native service to ensure that secure and seemless access for end-users can be achieved.<br>
## Infrastructure Considerations ##
1. Correct Placement of Devices
routers, switches, access points --> place them right = efficent, optimized network with little bottlenecks and properly configured.
2. Security Zones and Screened Subnets
_security zone_: distinct segment within a network, created usually logically with a firewall or other security device.<br>
_screened subnet/DMZ_: hosts public facing services, and safeguards against breaches by preventing attackes from gaining direct access to sensitive core internal networks and infrastructure. <br>
3. Understanding Attack Surface
_attack surface_: all points where a threat actor can try to enter/extract data from an enviroment.<br>
4. Determining Connectivity Methods
5. Understanding Device Attributes
6. Configuring the Failure Mode



