# identity and access management solutions (IAM) #
__IAM | Identity and Access Management__: Ensures the right access for the right people at the right times.<br>

4 Main Proccess: 
* Identification: claim of username/email as identity
* Authentication: verifies user identity, device, or system
* Authorization: establishment of users access permissions / levels
* Accouting: monitioring and recording user actions for compliance and security reasons
IAAA <br>

Additional Elements of IAM: <br>
__Provisioning__: process of creating new user accounts, assigning appropriate permissions, and providing users with access to systems. <br>
__Deprovisioning__: process of removing individual's access rights when the rights are no longer required. <br>
__Identity Proofing__: process of verifying the identity of a user __BEFORE__ the account is created. <br>
__Interoperability__: the ability of different systems, devices, and applications to work together and share information. <br>
__Attestation__: process of validating that user accounts and access rights are correct and up-to-date.<br>

## multifactor authentication MFA ##
__MFA__: security system that requires more than one method of authentication from independent categories of credentials to verify user's identity.

- Knowledge Based Factor: something you know, like a key or a password.
- Possession-Based Factor: something you own, like a ID card or a secondary device like a phone.
- Inherence-Based Factor: something you are, so any type of biometric.
- Behavior-Based Factor: something you do, so activity length or regular log on time.
- Location-Based Factor: somewhere you are, so geolocation.

_Passkeys_: passwordless type of authentication --> one time key created, use other type of factor to use it, like biometrics.<br>

*single, two, and multifactor*<br>

## password security ##
__Password Security__: measures the password's ability to resist guessing and brute-force attacks. <br>
quick recap for best password policies: <br>
 - length: 12-16 characters.
 - complexity: mix uppercase, lowercase, and special characters.
 - reuse: avoid reused passwords.
 - expiration: used to be mandated to change passwords, but no longer recommended.
 - age: length of time a password has been in use. deters users from frequently swapping passwords

 __Password Manager__: store, generate, and encryption passwords for users and keeps them stored safely.<br>
## password attacks ##
1. Brute Force
involves trying every possible combination of a password in order to find the correct one. can be easily mitigated via increasing password complexity, increasing password length, limiting number of logins, using MFA, and using CAPTCHAS. 
2. Dictionary
using a list of commonly used passwords and trying them all. effective against users who use common passwords.
3. Spraying
a form of brute force attack that involves trying a small number of commonly used passwords against a large number of usernames/accounts.
4. Hybrid
blends brute force and dictionary techniques by using common passwords with variations such as adding numbers or special characters. this utilizes known information to make brute forcing more efficient.

## single sign-on SSO ##
__Single Sign On__: authentication process that allows a user to access multiple applications/websites by logging in only once with a single set of credentials. It works based on a trusted relationship between the application and an Identity Provider. <br>
__Identity Provider (IDP)__: system that creates, maintains, and manages identity information for principals while providing authentication services to relying applications within a federation or distributed network.<br>

Three Tools Discussed:
- LDAP: used to access and maintain distributed directory information services over an internet protocol network.
- OAuth: open standard for token-based authentication and authorization that allow an individual's account information to be used by third-party services without exposing the user's password.
- SAML: Security Assertion Markup Language, a standard for logging users into applications based on their sessions in another context.
## federation ##
__Federation__: process that allows for the linking of electronic identities and attributes to store information across multiple distinct identity management systems.
1. Login initiation: user accesses service, trys to log on.
2. Redirection to IdP: service redirects request to IdP.
3. Authenticating the user: IdP authenticates user.
4. Generation of assertion: IdP creates assertion of their identity.
5. Return to service provider: with assertion from IdP, they are redirect back to service.
6. Verification and access: service looks for the assertion, and grants access based of that.

## privileged access management (PAM) ##
__Privileged Access Management: solution that helps organizations restrict and monitor privileged access within IT environment.__ <br>
Three Main Features of PAM:
1. Just-in-Time Permissions: security model where administrative access is granted only when needed for a specific period.
2. Password Vaulting: technique used to store/manage passwords in a secure environment, like a digital vault.
3. Temporal Accounts: used to provide time-limited access to resource, and they are automatically disabled or deleted after a certain period of time.

## access controls models ##
| 5 Types Discussed |
1. Mandatory Access Control (MAC): employ security labels to authorize users with certain resources. every resource is manual assigned, most work, but can create a very secure system if correctly configured.
2. Discretionary Access Control (DAC): resource owner determines which users can access each resource.
3. Role-based Access Control (RBAC): assigns users to roles and uses these to grant permissions to resources. (think AD)
4. Rule-based Access Control (RBAC): enables administrators to apply security policies to all users.
5. Attribute-based Access Control (ABAC): uses object characteristics for access control decisions. (also like AD)

*Additional Terms:*
__Resource Attributes:__ file creation date, resource owner, file name, and data sensitivity.
__Time-of-Day Restrictions:__ controls that restrict resource access based on request times.
__Least Privilege:__ granting users the minimun access required for their task, without extra privileges.
__Permission/Authorization Creep:__ occurs when a user gains excess rights during their career progession in the company.

I swear if there is one rule I can die by, its the idea of least privilege, not just for users, by any object, entity, endpoint that exists in a network/system. <br>
