## Vulnerabilities and Attacks ##
this section will cover common vulnerabilities and attacks need to know for the sec+ exam.

__vulnerability:__ weakness or flaws in hardware, software, configurations, or processes within a computer system, network, or application.<br>
__attacks:__ deliberate actions or activities done by threat actors. <br>

## hardware vulnerabilities ##
__hardware vulnerabilities__: flaws/weaknesses inherent in a a device's physical components.
1. Device Firmware
_firmware_: specialized software stored specifically on hardware device. <br>
Keeping firmware up-to-date is very important to prevent complete/privileged control of a device .
2. End-of-life Systems
Products (Hardware / Software) that have reached the end of their life cycle and no longer recieve updates/support.
3. Legacy Systems
Outdated computing products that have been largely superseded by newer and more efficient alternatives.
4. Unsupported Systems and Applications
Products that no longer recieve offical technical support, security updates, or patches from vendor/developers.
5. Unpatched Systems
Device, Application, or piece of software that has not been updated with the latest security patches so that it remains vulnerable to known exploits and attacks. Establish some type of patch management process to automatically monitor and look for new updates.
6. Hardware Misconfiguration
Occurs when a device's settings/parameters are not optimally set up, and this creates vulnerabilites.
## bluetooth vulnerabilities ##
_bluetooth / 802.11ax:_ wireless tech standard for exchanging data between fixed and mobile devices over short distances without the internet. <br>
types of issues with bluettoh:
- Insecure Device Pairing: devices establish connection without proper authentication.
- Device Spoofing: occurs when an attacker impersonates a device to trick user into connecting.
- On Path Attack: bluetooth vulnerability that allows for communications to be intercepted and altered.

_types of bluetooth attacks_:
1. Bluejacking --> sending of unsolicated messages through bluetooth to test for further vulnerabilities and access to device.
2. Bluesmack --> DoS attack via bluetooth
3. Bluesnarfing --> unauthorized connection to device via bluetooth.
4. Blueborne --> think as a bluetooth vulnerability worm.
5. Bluebugging --> hyjacking of bluetooth functions to be able to make calls, send texts, and access internet.

## mobile vulnerabilities ##
3 types discussed:
1. Sideloading: practicing of installing applications on a device from unofficial sources that bypass device's default app store.
2. Jailbreaking/Rooting: process that gives users escalated privileges on the devices and allow users to circumvent the built-in security measures provided by the device.
3. Insecure Connection Methods

__Mobile Device Management MDM__: used to conduct patching of devices by pushing necessary updates to the devices to ensure that they are always up-to-date.
- recall JAMF from IT office, and how easy it made managing IPad devices for school?
## zero day vulnerabilities ##
__zero day vulnerability__: any vulnerability that is discovered or exploited before a vendor is able to release a patch for it. <br>
__zero day exploit__: an exploit that exposes a previously unknown vulnerability in the software/hardware. <br>

traditional antivirus/malware cant work because the hash signature for this exploit does not exist, so that cant be caught easily. <br>
Think of zero day's as a arm race. This are really powerful and basically guarneeteed success for a cyber attack, but once used, they are no longer "unknown", and get patched/fixed.
## operating system vulnerabilities ##
1. Unpatched Systems
2. Zero Day
3. Misconfiguration
4. Data Exfiltration
5. Malicious Updates
## SQL and XML Injections ##
my fav! <br>
SQL --> Structured Query Language: 
Insert  Select  Update  Delete        <br>

SQLi --> a form of code injection where malicious SQL queries are sent instead of the regular one, and retrieve information they are not supposed to access. <br>

key solution: data/input validation!

XML: Extensible Markup Language
again, input validation is most important

__XML BOMB:__ process of sending a xml file that has fields within fields within field that exponential take up memory on server side computer and can potential crash a service. <br>
__XML External Entity:__ an attack that embeds a request for a _local_ resource. <br>
## XSS and XSRF ##
__XSS / Cross Site Scripting__: injecting of a malicious script into a trusted site to compromise the site's visitors. <br>
__DOM XSS__: XSS attacks that attack the document object model of web pages. <br>

_Session Management_: enables web apps to uniquely identify a user across serveral different actions and requests. <br>
_Session Hijacking_: spoofing attack where a threat actor is able to obtain a session token of an already authenticated user and use to it to bypass an authentication process. <br>
_Session Prediction_: spoofing attack where the attacker attempts to predict the session token in order to hijack the session. <br>

__Cross-Site Request Forgery__: Malicious script that is used to exploit a session started on another web site within the same web browser.<br>
## Buffer Overflow ##
__Buffer Overflow:__ occurs when data exceeds allocated memory, potentially enabling unauthorized access or code execution. <br>
"Smashing the Stack" --> occurs when attack excutes malicious code by overwriting the return address. <br>

the dangers of buffer overflow comes from what the addition overflown buffer does, and how it can mess up stack operation and reroute activity from normal to malicious. <br>

how to mitigate?
- Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR): security measure that _randomizes_ memory addresses, making overflow attacks harder to consistly perform.

## Race Conditions ##
What my IT114 focused on a bit actually with the multi-threading and synchronization operations! <br>
__Race Conditions:__ software vulnerabilities where the outcome depends on the timing of events not matching the developer's intended order. <br>
_Dereferencing:_ software vulnerability that occurs when code attempts to remove the relationship between a pointer and the thing that the pointing was refering to in memory. <br>

- Time of-Check (ToC): race condition where a system resource is altered affter an application checks its state but before the operation is perform.  "check if true, then _insert false_, and perform operation with false value instead of true"
- Time of-Use (ToU): race condition where state of system resource is changed between the time it is checked and time it is used.
- Time of-Evaluation (ToE): race condition that involves the manipulation of data or resources during time window when a system is making a decision or evaluation. think of like a potential merge conflict in github!