## malicious activites ##
this where the CTF knowlegde really comes in, not too much to know in this chapter but KNOW!

## DDoS and DoS ##
be able to talk abt difference of DoS and DDoS and different types of these attacks
## DNS Attacks ##
cache poisioning - fill dns cache to route users to incorrect destinations<br>
dns amplication - like a DoS attack due to nature of dns request being smaller then the response packet<br>
dns tunneling - encasing non-dns packets into dns packets to bypass firewalls<br>
dns highjacking - altering dns registration without owner consent<br>
dns zone transfer - attacker mimics an authorized system to request and obtain the entire dns zone data for a domain<br>
## Directory Tranversal Attack ##
type of injection attack<br>
--> accessing documents and path that users are not allowed to reach <--<br>
note that attackers can use html encoding to hide attack (instead of ../, query may look like %2e%2e%5f)
## Execution and Escalation Attacks ##
__arbitrary code execution__: a vulnerabiliy that allows an attacker to run a code or module that exploits a vulnerability.<br>
__remote code execution__: a type of arb code exec that allows user to transmit code to a local host.<br>
## Replay Attacks ##
__replay attacks__: type of network base attack that involves maliciously repeating or delaying valid data transmissions.<br>

*example* --> i log your network activity and capture your login information when accessing your bank account, in which I repeat that information and my side and gain unauthorized access to your banking information.<br>
## session management ##
__session management__: security component that enables wep applications to identify a user. <br>
__cookie poisioning__: modifying the contents of a cookie to be sent to a client's browser and exploit the vulnerabilities in an app.<br>

remember cookies and session from IT202!<br>
cookie --> client-side <br>
session --> server/database side <br>

session hijacking and session predicting <br>
## on-path attacks ##
Man in the Middle Attack - think coffee shop wifi problem. <br>
__SSL Stripping__: tricking the encryption application with a HTTP connection instead of an HTTPS connection. (burpsuite has an option to do this I believe) <br>
__Downgrade Attack__: occurs when an attacker attempts to have a client or server abandon its higher security mode.<br>
## injection attacks ##
*LDAPi*: an attack in which LDAP statements, typically created by user input are fabricated.<br>
*Command Injection*: attacker is able to execute arbitrary shell commands via a vulnerability web application.<br>
*Process Injection*<br>

moral of the story --> INPUT VALIDATION AND SANITATION!!! <br>
## Indicators of Compromise IoC ##
1. Account Lockouts
2. Concurrent Session Usage
3. Blocked Content
4. Impossible Travel
5. Resource Consumption
6. Resource Inaccessibility
7. Out-of-cycle Logging
8. Articles or Documents on Security Breach
9. Missing Logs