## Hardening ##
how to make a system more secure? <br>
## Changing Default Configurations ##
default and factory settings are usually NOT secure!
this usually include:
- Default Passwords
- Unneeded Ports and Protocols
- Extra Open Ports
## Restricting Applications ##
think abt how many applications you have on your system, and how many build up over time? <br>
__Least Functionality__: a process of configuring a workstation or server with only essential applications and services for the users<br>
- Restrict
- Uninstall 
- Audit
__Secure Baseline Image__: a standardized workstation setup, including OS, essential applications, and strict policies in corporate networks. <br>
*recall IT work experience, and having to reimage computers in the summer, they also utilized **multiple** baseline images*<br>
__Allowlisting__: security measure that permits only approved applications to run on an operating system. <br>
- more secure, more work
__Blocklisting__: security measure that contains list of applications that are denying ability to execute. <br>
- less secure, less work
## Unnecessary Services ##
only allow necesscary services are running!
know how to kill process in linux, mac, and windows
## Trusted Operating Systems ##
__Trusted Operating Systems__: designed to provide a secure computing environment by enforcing stringent security policies that usually rely on mandatory access controls. <br>
__SELinux__: set of controls that are installed on top of another linux distribution like CentOS or Red Hat Linux. <br>

Designing a TOS can be VERY expensive and time consuming proccess.
Windows, Average Linux Distro's, and MAC all usually fall under EAL4/4+
## Updates and Patches ##
One cornerstone of security is making sure that everything is up-to-date ASAP.
use a patch management process, and audit any automatic patches!

_hotfix_: fixing a vulnerability, critical that these get patched as fast as possible<br>
_update_: usually for introducing new features and can actually create vulnerabilities, so be more careful. <br>
_service pack_: bundle of a bunch of hotfixes and updates, highly recommending to install if needed. <br>
## Patch Management ##
__Patch Management__: planning, testing, implementing, and auditing of software patches. <br>
4 Steps for a Good Patch Management Process:
1. Planning
2. Testing
3. Implementing
4. Auditing

_Patch Ring_: sending updates to all workstations in "batches", to stop potential bringing down endpoint devices all at once. <br>
Good Free Tool! --> Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager <br>
## Group Policies ##
__Group Policy__: set of rules or policies that can be applied to a set of users or computer accounts within an operating system. <br>
__Security Template__: a group of policies that can be loaded through one procedure. <br>
*Baselining*: process of measuring changes in the network, hardware, or software environment. <br>
## SELinux ##
SELinux is created by NSA! <br>
the big thing with SELinux is the usage of a MAC architecture versus a DAC<br>
- User: user,root,admin ...
- Role: what roles can access a process
- Type: group objects by security requirements
- Level: sensitivity level of file or folder

Three Modes of SELinux: <br>
1. Disabled: Not using SELinux, MAC is not implemented
2. Enforcing: All SELinux security policies are being enforced
3. Permissive: SELinux is enabled, but security policies are not enforced

__DAC__: discrestation based access model, where user defined rules and policies<br>
__MAC__: mandatory access model, predefind and immutatable.<br>
## Data Encryption Levels ##
Data can be encrypted at different levels, so know! <br>
1. Full-disk: entire hard drive/device is encrypted (Windows BitLocker)
2. Partition: applied to only a specific partition of a drive
3. File: encrypting a singular file
4. Volume: encrypt a set space in a hard drive (group of folders)
5. Database: secures entire database, extending over potentially multiple storage spaces
6. Record: encrypting only individual records or rows within a database, like confidential items
## Secure Baselines ##
__Secure Baseline__: standard security configuration that is applied to guarantee minimun security for a system, network, or application. <br>