## security techniques ##
what are some techniques used to implement effective security measures <br>
domain 4
## wireless infrastructure security ##
__WAP:__ wireless access point, creates an area for a wireless device to be able to connect to the network. <br>
important for both ease of usage and security, if WAP is close to external wall, connect can be access from outside the permitted location. <br>
__Site Survey__: process of planning and desiging a wireless network to provide a solution. <br>
__Heat Map__: graphical representation of wireless coverage, signal strength, and frequency utilization at different locations. <br>
## wireless security settings ##
Know! --> <br>
*WEP:* Wired Equivalent Privacy, very outdated, practically provides no security.weak 24-bit initization vector, and one key usage for all packets sent <br>
*WPA:* Wifi Protected Access, temporary improvement over WEP while a more robust solution was in creation. used 128 bit keys, new for each packet sent <br>
*WPA2:* improved data protection and network access control by addressing weaknesses in WPA, mainly issues with TKIP cryptographic strength, now swapping to AES for encryption and CCMP. <br>
*WPA3:* latest version that uses AES encryption with new features like SAE, Enhanced Open, updated cryptographic protocols, and management protection frames. no longer uses 4 way handshake which had issues in WPA2 and before. <br>

AAA
RADIUS
TACACS+
EAP

cool video i found on wpa2 vulnerability through MIM, SSL stripping, Wireshark, and key reinstallation! <br>
https://youtu.be/Oh4WURZoR98

## application security ##
__application security__: aspect of software development that focuses on building applications that are secure by design. <br>
* Input Validation: gatekeeper that ensures that applications only act on well defined and uncontaminated data.
* Secure Cookies: small pieces of data stored data client side, use secure cookies to make sure that can not be manipulated.
* Static Code Analysis: a method of debuging an application by reviewing it before it can even run or execute.
* Dynamic Code Analysis: testing method that analysis an application while its running for logic and runtime errors.
* Code Signing: technique used to make sure that a piece of code is not modifying maliciously or change without being known. hash signatures!
* Sandboxing: security machanism to isolate running programs for extensive testing and limits malicious activity from spreading from application.
## network access control ##
__NAC__: scans devices for their security status before granting network access, safeguarding against both known and unknown devices.<br>
works at basically a first check, and potential timeout of device does not abide with set network policies. <br>
_Persistant Agent_: software installed on the device that is requesting network access. <br>
_Non-Persistant Agent_: Users connect to WiFi, access a web portal, and click a link for login in these solutions. <br> 
*think about NJIT IoT wifi portal!*<br>
## web and DNS filtering ##
_Web Filtering_: technique used to restrict/control the content a user can access on the Internet. (recall IT issue with prinipical over the summer!)<br>
_DNS Filtering_: technique of preventing translation of domain name from corresponding IP's. <br>
- recall how pi hole works, network based dns firewall for ads.
## email security ##
1. DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail): allows the reciever to check if the email was actually sent by the domain it claims to be sent from and if the content was tampered during transit.
2. SPF (Sender Policy Framework): email authentication method designed to prevent forging sender addresses during email delivery.
3. DMARC (Domain-based Message authentication, Reporting, and Conformance): an email validation system designed to detect and prevent email spoofing.
4. Email Gateway Protocol: Server/system that serves as the entry and exit point for emails (think as a proxy).
5. Spam Filtering!
## Endpoint Detection and Response ##
EDR: category of security tools used for endpoint monitioring and auditing for later investigation.<br>
1. Data Collection
2. Data Consolidation
3. Threat Detection
4. Alerts and Threat Response Action 
5. Threat investigation 
6. Remediation
FIM (File Integrity Monitoring): validates integrity of operating system and application files.<br>
XDR (Extended Detection and Response): strategy that intgrates multiple protection technologies into a single platform.<br>
## User Behavior Analysis ##
__UBA__: deploys big data and machine learning to analyze user behaviors for detecting security threats.<br>
this work the rise of AI tools has really began to alter the security industry!<br>
1. quicker then manual logging
2. great at defeating insider threats
3. quicken response times
## Selecting Secure Protocols ##
whenever the option is availible, always try to use secure protocols versus its unsecure types <br>
SSH v Telnet       SFTP v FTP    HTTPS v HTTP        IMAPS      POP3S       SMTPS <br>

Know when to use TCP protocols vs UDP protocols!