## alerting and monitoring ##
_alerting_: process of notifying relevant personnal as a potential security incident occurs. <br>
_monitoring_: involves continuous observation of a system or network. <br>
## monitoring resources ##
_system monitoring_: observation of computer systems, including utilization and comsumption of its resources. <br>
cool tool on windows --> performance monitor :D <br>
_application monitoring_<br>
_infrastructure monitoring_   --> use tools like solar winds <br>
## alerting and monitoring activities ##
Processes involving alerting + monitoring activites
1. Log Aggregation - collect logs from all sources and hold in centralized area.
2. Alerting - setting up notifications to inform relevant stakeholders with specific events or conditions occur. this also is important for compliance!
3. Scanning - involves examining systems, networks, or applications to identify vulnerabilites, config issues, or other potential problems. recall last chapter with tools like Nessus or OpenVAS
4. Reporting - generating summary reports to overview issues and vulnerabilities found.
5. Archiving - involves storing dat for long-term retention and future reference, including org's log data, performance data, and incident data. 
6. Alert Response / Remediation / Validation - involves the process of taking action in response to alerts and ensuring that the identified issues have been effectively addressed.

Some Important Tools:
_Quarantining_: isolating a system/network/application to prevent spread of a threat and limit organizational impact.<br>
_Alert Tuning_: adjusting alert parameters to reduce errors, false positives, and improve the overall relevance of the alerts being generated in a system. <br>
## simple network management protocol ##
__Port 161 - UDP - SNMP:__ internet protocol for collecting and organizing information about managed devices on IP networks for modifying that information to change device behavior. <br>
_SET:_ network manager is trying to set a parameter / value on endpoint device
_GET:_ network manager is requesting to see a parameter / value from endpoint device
_TRAP:_ sent async from endpoint to manager, sending any significant information, like unexcepted downtime or configuration changes.

SNMPv1 and v2 used shared secret keys in plain text, so you can see how its not very secure
## Security Information and Event Management SIEM ##
__SIEM__: Solution that provides real-time or near real-time analysis of security alerts that are generated by network hardware and applications. <br>
Some SIEMS include --> __Splunk, ELK/Elastic Stack, ArcSight, QRadar__ <br>
one of the newer holy grails of security! <br>

*Agent*: software agent installed on each system which the SIEM uses to collect log data. <br>
## Data from Security Tools ##
tools like SIEMS can consolidate a lot of data together, so here is some of the data that is important to cybersecurity analyst!
1. Antivirus Software
2. Data Loss Preventation
3. Network Intrusion Detection
4. Network Intrusion Prevention
5. Firewalls
6. Vulnerability Scanners
## Security Content Automation and Protocol SCAP ##
__Security Content Automation Protocol__: open standards that automate vulnerability management, measurement, and policy compliance in an organization. Developed by NIST Framework <br>

Three Main Languages with SCAP:
_OVAL_: Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language -> XML schema for describing security states and quering vulnerability reports and information. <br>
_XCCDF_: Extensible Configuration Checklist Description Format -> xml schema for developing and auditing best practice configuration checklists and rules.<br>
_ARF_: Asset Reporting Format -> xml schema for expressing information about assets and the relationships between assets and reporting. <br>
## NetFlow and Flow Analysis ##
_Full Packet Capture (FPC)_: capturing the entire packet, including header and traffic payload...
_Flow Analysis_: relies on a flow collector, which records metadata and statistics rather than recording each frame that passes through the network. <br>
Great for highlight trends or abnormalities in data at a much cheaper cost, but comes with the price of not actually recording the information of what is inside the packets. <br>
think about how wireshark can capture tcp/udp streams and visualizing it?! <br>

__NetFlow__: cisco-developed means of reporting network flow into a structured database. this turned a standard for others <br>
__IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX)__: defines traffic flow based on shared packet characteristics <br>
## Single Pane of Glass ##
_Single Pane of Glass_: a central point of access for all the information, tools, and systems.
- providing a unified view to quickly access necessary information, and aid in informed decision-making.
- simplifies compliance
- can be either software or hardware