## incident response ##
The goal of incident response is to outline a structured approach in managing and mitigating security incidents effectively. <br>
## incident response process ##
__incident__: act of violating an explicit or implied security policy. <br>
__incident response procedure__: guidelines for handling security incidents. <br>


**IMPORTANT! DEFINITION FROM COMPTIA OF 7 LAYER INCIDENT RESPONSE MODEL**<br>
1. Preparation: strengthening systems and networks to protect from attacks.
2. Detection: identifying a security incident.
3. Analysis: thorough examination and evaluation of incident.
4. Containment: limiting the incident's impact by securing data and protecting critical business operations.
5. Eradication: starts after containment and aims to remove malicious activity from the system or network. 
6. Recovery: restore the affected system back into the network.
7. Post-incident Activity: happens after containment, in which a post-op analysis is done for future preventation. 
**IMPORTANT**<br>


## threat hunting ##
__threat hunting__: cybersecurity method for finding hidden threats that are not caught by regular security monitoring. Proactive versus reactive security utilizing reversing enginnering to find system vulnerabilities. <br>

_Advisories and Bulletins_: published by vendors and security researchers when new TTP's and vulnerabilities are discovered. <br>
_Intelligence Fusion and Threat Data_: using SIEM and analysis platforms to spot concerns in the logs and real-world security threats. <br>

goal is to create new threat signatures to further protect your network
## root cause analysis ##
__root cause analysis__: a systematic process to identify the initial source of the incident and how to prevent it from occuring again. <br>

goal is to identify initial attack vector, and learn how to future mitigate them! additional, the goal is not to necessary point blame at someone/something, but instead to find the root cause and learn ways to potential stop them from occuring again. <br>
## incident response training and testing ##
_Training_: ensures that staff grasps processes and priorities for incident response. is diverse for what position is recieving the training. incorpate past incidents in future training! <br>
_Testing_: pratical exercise of incident response procedures. can be costly to recreate a large scale incident, but makes sures every one is ready for a potential situation. <br>
- Tabletop Exercise
- Penetration Testing (Red v Blue)
- Full Scale Mock Incident Event Simulation
## digitial forensics procedures ##
__digitial forensics (my fav!)__: process of investigating and analyzing digital devices and data to uncover evidence for legal purposes. <br>

*Four Main Phases:*
1. Indentification
2. Collection
3. Analysis
4. Reporting

*Order of Volatility*: dictates the sequence in which data sources should be collected and preserved based on their susceptibility to modification or loss. <br>
*Chain of Custody*: documente and verifiable record that tracks the handling, transfer, and preservation of digital evidence from the moment it is collected until it is presented in a court of law. <br>
*Disk Imaging*: involves creating a bit-by-bit or logical copy of a storage device, preserving its entire contents, including deleted files and unallocated space. <br>
*File Carving*: focuses on extracting files and data fragments from storage media without relying on the file system. <br>
*Legal Hold*: formal notification that instructs all employees to preserve all potentially relevant electronic data, documents, and records. this can be implement through making backups, isolating critical systems, and implement access controls. <br>
*Electronic Discovery*: process of identifying, collecting, and producing electronically storad information during potential legal proceedings. <br>

all the write-ups and documents that I make are not only so other people know what i do, but so that my work can be repeatable and can withstand scurity! 
## data collection procedures ##
1. Capture and hash the system image (FTKImager)
2. Capture screenshots of the machine
3. follow the order of volatility
4. take statements
5. review licenses and documentation

__Data Acquistion__: the method and tools used to create a forensically sound copy of the data from a source device, such as system memory or hard drive disk. <br>
- do you have the rights to do this? what about BYOD devices? 

Order of Collecting Data: (Volatility)
1. CPU registers and cache memory. Most prone to instantenous change.
2. System Memory (RAM), routing tables, ARP caches, processes tables, temporary swap files.
3. Data on persistent mass storage. (HDD/SSD/flash drive)
4. Remote logging and monitoring data.
5. Physical configuration and network topology. 
6. Any archival media like taps or offsite storage.

**Cool Little Fact**<br>
Some Windows registry keys like HKLM/Hardware are only stored in memory, and require a memory dump to analysis, versus the other keys which or stored directly on the hard storage. <br> 

## disk imaging and analysis ##
how to create a image!
1. have usb with write blocking capabilities (makes sure systems state remains the same)
2. example kali command (dd bs=64k if=/dev/sdb of=usb2gb.dd)
- dd=data drive      if=inputfile      of=outputfile
3. create hash of the output file created
4. Open an imager tool like FTKImager