## investigating an incident ##
all inclusive chapter on domain 4 and 4.9: <br>
look at an alert and is this an incident and what to do.

__pretty important chapter for exam test taking!__
## investigating with data ##
__Use a SIEM!__ <br>
Sensor: where information comes from? <br>
Sensitivity: how much information is sent? <br>
Trends: what is change/not in the network? <br>
Alerts: what can be a potential vulnerability/incident/problem? <br>
Correlation: what are some connections between alerts, trends, sensors...? <br>

__look at log files (network, system, application, security, web, DNS, Authentication, Dump Files, VoIP)__<br>

*NXLog* - Cross Platform Logging tool for Unix, Linux, and Windows
*Rsyslog/syslog-ng* - Linux and Unix
*Journeyctl* - Linux

_NetFlow_: network protocol system created by cisco that collects active IP network traffic as it flows in or out of an interface, including its point of origin, destination, volume, and paths on the network. <br>
_SFlow_: open source version of NetFlow, generic verison. Not a full packet capture. <br>
_IPFIX_: universal standard of exporting for internet protocol flow information from devices on network. <br>

__Metadata__: data that describes other data by providing an underlying definition or description by summarizing basic information about data that makes finding and working with particular instances of data easier. think abt image metadata... and how useful for stegography. <br>
## dashboards ##
__dashboards__: visually display information from various systems, used in security operation centers for a comprehensive review. recall section about single pane of glass SPOG!<br>

*Splunk*: large-scale data platform that can process various data types, including security and incident response data. <br>
## automated reports ##
__automated reports__: computer generated report created automatically. <br>
*ex*: some SIEM or antivirus software creating a automated report after a certain date of time has past. <br>

_Security Operation Center_
## vulnerability scans ##
__vulnerability scan__: generates scan reports automatically, recall tools like Nessus and OpenVAS. <br>
even though it automatically done, it must be manually reviewed. <br>
goal is take review and known information about the network, and create a more catered and accurate report.
## packet captures ##
__packet capture__: gathers all data sent to or from a specific network device. <br>
wireshark yay! <br>

first attack in the video is network mapping scan! <br>
second attack is a SYN flood DoS attack! <br>
third attack is a SYN flood DDoS attack! <br>
## firewall logs ##
How to Read and interpert firewall logs! <br>

first capture shows one src ip that is trying to connect to multiple common ports at some endpoint server, and firewall is blocked them. most likely a port scan. <br>

second capture comes from a web firewall, in which a web server is trying to querys on index.php, which they begin a SQLi injection, but the firewall catches the malicious querys and blocks the attack, and send back HTTP403 status page. <br>
## application logs ##
How to Read and Understand application firewall logs <br>
important key parts of a log includes time, event id, description, user, action, and additional notes. <br>

capture shows macros actions attempted within a document file. <br>
## endpoint logs ##
how to read and analysis endpoint log. <br>

capture shows a malicious download on endpoitn computer, which made a call to C2 server, and executes a more malicious process. <br>
## OS-specific security logs ##
log for general os example <br>

capture shows many login attempts, and fails, which then alerts the admin after a certain amount of guesses, and also got locked out.
## IPS/IDS logs ##
how to read IDS/IPS logs: <br>
look for severity ratings, alert/block status ...

note that it will be a combination of action status, severity, and description that will help you understand the true threat/impact of event on the network. <br>
## network logs ##
how to read network logs: <br>
similiar idealogy to previous sections, look at action (allow/block), details, and what interfaces.

capture shows an ARP-spoof attack. <br>
## metadata ##
__metadata__: information about a file, application, or other data. <br>