## automation and orchestration ##
__automation__: automatic execution of tasks without manual involvement <br>
__orchestration__: coordination of the automated tasks for a specific outcome or workflow <br>

__SOAR__: Security, Orchestration, Automation, and Response. <br>
*Playbook*: checklist of actions for specific incident responses. <br>
*Runbook*: automated version of playbooks with human interaction points. <br>
## when to automate and orchestration ##
when should you consider automation (domain 4.7)! <br>

Pros:
- Increasing efficiency and time saving - automation creates more time saved.
- Enforcing baselines - streamlines security and compliance.
- Implementing standard infrastructure configurations - +++security and stability.
- Scaling in a secure manner - creates dynamic resource scaling with compliance.
- Increasing employee retention - automating tasks unlocks job fulfillment. (intersting..)
- Increasing reaction times - respond more quickly to security incidents.
- Being a workforce multiplier - amplifying staff capabilities

Cons:
* Complexity - best for repetitive task that are somewhat complex
* Cost - requires a large upfront initial investment to develop and implement
* Single Points of Failure - identify in automation/orchestration for network
* Technical debt - can/will accumulate if not maintained or updated
* Ongoing supportability - how to keep long term supportability?

automation and orchestration is best for a stable and repeative task! <br>
## automating support tickets ##
support ticket management is a critical function for IT support teams! <br>
Via automation --> increase efficiency, scabliity, ...

__ticket creation:__ automatic generation of a ticket when user/customer reports issue or request. <br>
__ticket escalation:__ process of ensuring that higher/complex tickets are addressed promptly via the right personnal. <br>
- recall the ticket system and escalation process at IT office, either started at IT support and later branched into different teams like web team, security team, network team ... or user could pick which was most applicable. 
## automating onboarding ##
automating onboarding SAVES a lot of time and removes human errors in access control and user management, with proper role access. Additionally stopping __permission sprawl__ by correctly modifying user access after changes in workplace such as promotions, transfers, or offboarding. <br>
## automating security ##
__security automation__: involves the use of technology to handle repetitive security tasks and maintain consistent defense. <br>
*Guardrails*: automated safety controls to protect against insecure infrastructure configurations. <br>
*Security Groups*: act as a cloud-based server firewalls that control incoming and outgoing network traffic. <br>
*Service Access Management*: area to prioritize in security automation for risk reduction and operational efficiency. <br>
*Managing Permission*: ensuring that individuals have the correct access level corresponding to their designated roles. <br>
*Role Based Access Controls RBAC*: used to assign and manage system permissions. <br>

reduce work, decrease level of human error for repeative tasks. <br>
## automating application development ##
Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) enhances efficiency, consistency, and overall quality of software applications. <br>
_Continuous Integration_: practice in software development where developers merge code changes frequently in one place. (think GitHub) <br>
_Continuous Delivery_: maintains deployable code with automation. <br>

git-git-github!?!?  github mentioned
## integrations and API's ##
me when the api web scrapper flags this page 
_integration_: process of combining different subsystems or components into one comprehensive system to ensure that they function properly together. <br>

__Application Programming Interface (API)__: set of rules and protocols that are used for building and integrating application software. <br>
Usually either use: <br>
- _Rest_: representational state transfer: architectural style that uses standard HTTP methods like get/post ..., status codes, uniform resource identifiers, and _MIME_(Multipurpose Internet Mail Exetension) types.
- _Soap_: protocol that defines a strict standard with a set structure for the message, usually in XML format. a little more robust with higher security and customizability. 

how to test API functionality? <br>
__curl:__ a tool provided on Mac/Linux systems, can be installed on windows. allows for data transfer from a server using on of the supported protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, ....