## security awareness ##
__security awareness__: refers to the knowledge and understanding of potential threats. <br>
goal of this section is to:
- understand common threats
- recognize potential risks
- employ best practices
## recognizing insider threats ##
recall!<br>
__insider threat__: security risk that originates from individuals within an organization. <br>
how should we train user to recognize possible insider threats?
- substance abuse
- emotional distress
- incongruences: lifestyle that doesnt fit the person!
- finanical struggles

this section feels bummy like damn the person is really just an asset.
## password management ##
__password management__: practices and tools used to create, store, and manage passwords. <br>
*use a password manager, and stop reusing your passwords!!!* <br>

OnePass, Bitwarden ... 
## avoiding social engineering ##
__Social Engineering__: a manipulative tactic used by attackers to trick individuals into bypassing an organization's security procedures. <br>

__Operational Security (OPSEC)__: stresses data protection against social engineers for business aspects such as routines, project details, and internal procedures. <br>
- monitor your social media profile, conversations, etc...

consider tools a social enginner may use:
- urgency
- fear
- authority
- likeability
...
## policy and handbooks ##
__Policies__: guidelines/rules providing framework for consistent decision-making and action. <br>
__Handbooks__: comprehensive guides that provide information on specific topics. <br>
--> one for training        
--> one for onboarding      
--> one for finanical group     
## remote and hybrid work environments ##
__Remote Work__: performing job functions outside the traditional office environment. <br>
__Hybrid Work__: Combination of remote and in-office work. <br>
## creating a culture of security ##
__Culture of Security__: an organizational mindest that prioritizes security in tasks and processes. <br>

you can have the most secure network but the users of it must understand the need for security practices if they are going to be followed!!! <br>

__Organization Change Management OCM__: recognizing the human role in security, ensuring staff engagement, and policy adherence. <br>
