## social enginnering ##
the good ol' im ur best friend now give me you SSN stat!
--> definition --> manipulative strategies used to exploit human psych to gain unauthorized access to systems, data, or physical spaces.

*there is SO many ways someone can utilize social enginnering, from dressing up as a delivery guy with boxes in the hopes you let me into your building, to phishing and scam ads.*
BEST WAY TO STOP THIS IS TO TRAIN EMPLOYEES!!

## Motivational Triggers ##
6 types discussed:

- Authority: people listen to authority positions, i.e manager, boss, government ...
- Urgency: people under pressure of time-sensitivity/immediacy. RESPOND IN THE NEXT HOUR OR ...
- Social Proof: people look to others to make decisions. (get people to vouch)
- Scarcity: people believe a resource is limited or in short supply, so they want the resource more.
- Likability: people are more likely to listen to likeable people.
- Fear: people act rashly when in fear of something.

## Impersonation ##
__def: an attack where an adversary assumes the identity of another person to gain unauthorized access.__<br>
steps to impersonate:<br>
1. collect information of organization to create a strong profile.
2. sneak in lies with the truth to be more believable.

*brand impersonation: specific form where attacker pretends to represent a company/brand.*<br>
*typosquating: attacker takes a domain name very similiar to real one, but has some typo... www.gogle.com*<br>
*watering hole attacks: targeted form of cyber attack where attackers compromise a known used service.*<br>
## Pretexting ##
__def: the utilization of common/known information about a company's infracture in order to learn more.__ <br>
## Phishing Attacks ##

6 types discussed:<br>
"spray and pray"<br>
- Phishing: fraudulent attacks usings deceptive emails from a trusted source to trick individuals into disclosing personal information
- Vishing: "voice phishing", attack deceives the victim over the phone.
- Smishing: "sms phishing", phishing attack over text message.
- Whaling: type of spear phishing that targets high profile individuals.
"targeted"<br>
- Spear Phishing: used on a more tightly focused group of individuals/organization = stronger authority and trust
- Business Email: advanced phishing attack that leverages internal email accounts within a company. "bergen.org"

__how to prevent!__<br>
1. anti-phishing campaigns: educate all users of a org on potential phishing attempts.
  - this should highlight generic greetings, spelling/grammer mistakes, and spoofed email addresses.
2. good spam filtering for domain emails
3. conduct your own phishing campaign, if user fails, hit them with training.
## Frauds and Scams ##
__Fraud: wrongful or criminal deception intended to result in financial or personal gain.__ <br>
__Scam: fraudulent or deceptive act or operation.__ <br>
## Influence Campaigns ##
__def(in context): disinformation campaigns from high-level actors in order to influence a group of people.__<br>
examples: anti-vax, election disinformation, ... <br>
mis --> unintentional
dis --> intentional

## Other Types of Social Enginnering ##

- Diversion Theft: manipulating/creating a distraction in order to steal valuable information/items. 
Example: DNS Spoofing is an attack where a DNS server is manipulated so that when a user enters a website's domain, they get redirected to a different, malicous site. 
- Hoaxes
- Shoulder Surfing: looking over someones shoulder to gather personal information.
- Dumpster Diving: sort of in the name, look in trash for valuable information. trash = public domain
- Eavesdropping: intercept communication between two parties without their knowledge.
think about a tool like wireshark, sniffing network info, always talk in encryption channels.
- Baiting: plant some type of malware infected device for someone to find and unintentional spread (usb?)

## human-centered security and privacy ##
*think about some data breach or successful threat actor*<br>
most of them come back to people themselves... because of convienance, laziness ... <br>
making human-centered security to promote people to do good security passwords! <br>

