## data protection ##
__define: process of safeguarding important information from corruption, compromise, or loss.__<br>
covering objective domains 1 3 4 5 🧠

## data classifications ##
__def: category based on the organization's value and sensitivity of the information if it were to be disclosed.__<br>
*Sensitive Data: any information that can result in a loss of security or a loss of advantage to a company if accessed by an unauthorized person. DONT overclassify all of your data, like storing all your eggs in one basket, makes its a lot more valueable, expensive, and able to lose it all if it is compromised.*<br>

__Business Sector Terms:__
- Public: no impact on the company if released and is often posted in an open-source environment.
- Sensitive: has minimal impact if released. (i.e financial data)
- Private: Contains data that should only be used within the organization.
- Confidential: contains items such as trade secrets, intellectual property, data, and source code that affects business if disclosed.
- Critical: valuable information (i.e API keys, credit card numbers, ...)

__Government Sector Terms:__
- unclassified: data that can be released to the public or under the freedom of information act.
- sensitive but unclassified: data that would not hurt national security if released but could impact those whose data was being used.
- confidential: data that could seriously affect the government if unauthorized disclosures happen. (serious effects)
- secret: data that could seriously damage national security if disclosed.(serious DAMAGE)
- top secret: data that would damage national security if disclosed. (GRAVE DAMAGE)

## data ownership ##
__def: process of identifying the person responsible for the confidentality, integrity, availability, and privacy of the information assets.__<br>
- data owner: senior executive role that has the responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information asset. not necessarily the person who created the data, put the person who decides its confidentiality and assigns its roles.
- data controller: entity that holds responsibility for deciding the purposes and methods of data storage, collection, and usage, and for guaranteeing the legality of processes.
- data processsor: group or individual hired by the data controller to help with tasks like collecting, storing, or analyzing data.
- data stewards: focused on the quality of the data and the associated metadata.
- data custodians: responsible for handling the management of the system on which the dat assets are stored. (sys admin)
- data privacy officer: role that is responsible for the oversight of any kind of privacy-related data, like PII, SPI, or PHI.

## data states ##
* REST: refers to data stored in databases, file systems / other. (prime target for threat actors)

__encryption types:__
1. full disk encryption (FDE): encryptions entire hard drive.
2. partition encryption: encryptions specific partitions of a hard drive, leaving other parts not encrypted.
3. file encryption: encrypts a specific file.
4. volume encryption: encrypts a set of selected files/directories.
5. record encryption: encrypts specific fields within a database.
* TRANSIT: refers to data actively moving from one location to another, such as across the internet or through a private network. (can be vulnerable in transit so encrypt your network traffic!)
* USE: refers to data in the process of being created, retrieved, updated, or deleted. (think SQL)

## data types ##
1. Regulated Types: information controlled by laws, regulations, or industry standards.
2. Trade Secrets: type of confidential business information that provides an edge of the company.
3. Intellectual Property (IP): creations of the mind, such as inventions, literary works, designs, and symbols.
4. Legal Information: includes any information that is related to legal proceedings, contracts, or regulatory compliance.
5. Financial Information: includes data related to an organizations financial transactions, such as sales records, invoices, tax documents, and bank statements.
6. Human-readable v non-human readable: information that can be understood by humans without the need for a machine or software.

## data sovereignity ##
__def: information is subject to laws and governance structures within the nation where it is collected.__<br>
with the rise of cloud computing, this is important to keep in mind when storing information in the "cloud", where those databases are located, and what data sovereignity laws apply to them (EU, RUSSIA, CHINA, USA...)

## securing data ##
1. Geographic Restrictions: enforcing virtual boundaries to restrict data access based of geographic location.
2. Encryption: the transformation of readable data into unreadable data (ciphertext) using an algorithm and an encryption key.
3. Hashing: technique that converts data into a fixed size of numerical or alphanumerical characters, known as a hash value (designed be one-way function)
4. Masking: replacing some or all of the data in a field with a placeholder, such as "x", to conceal the original content.
5. Tokenization: replaces sensitive data with non-sensitive substitutes, known as tokens.
6. Obfuscation: involves making data unclear or unintelligible, making it difficult for unauthorized users to understand it.
7. Segmentation: involves dividing a network into seperate segments, each with their own security controls.
8. Permission Restrictions: involves defining who has access to specific data and what they can do with it.

## data loss protection (DLP) ##
__def: strategy for ensuring sensitive/critical information does not leave an organization.__<br>
monitors data in all of its types (rest, transit, use) <br>

__ENDPOINT DLP SYSTEM:__ a piece of software thats installed on a workstation that monitors data that's in use on that computer. <br>
__NETWORK DLP SYSTEM:__ a piece of software/hardware that is a solution placed at the perimeter of the network to detect data in transit. <br>
__STORAGE DLP:__ a software installed on a server and inspects data while it is at rest in the server. <br>
__CLOUD BASED DLP__: i.e google cloud. <br>

