## cryptography: solutions ##
__cryptography: practice and study of writing and solving codes to hide the true meaning of the data.__<br>
__encryption: process of converting ordinary information(plaintext) into an unintelligible form(ciphertext).__<br>
_cipher: an algorithm that performs the encryption/decryption._<br>

the thing to understand is that its not necessarily the encryption method that makes the data secure, but instead the key. the key is what protects the data from being decrypted by unauthorized people. the larger the key, and the more it changes, the better your encryption. <br>

## Symmetric Encryption ##
__def: use the same key for both encryption and decryption. this key is private.__<br>

*issues arise such as everyone would need keys for communication to anyone, non-rediputation, and lack of knowledge in communication between people. however, they tend to be a lot faster then asymmetric encryption*<br>

some examples:
- DES: encryption algorithm which breaks input into 64-bit blocks and uses transposition and substitution to create ciphertext using an effective key strength of only 56-bits. (not very secure for today's standard)
- 3DES: now uses 3 separate sym keys to encrypt, decrypt, and encrypt again in order to increase DES strength.
- IDEA: symmetric block cipher whih uses a 64-bit blocks to encrypt plaintext into ciphertext. (not frequently used)
- AES(KNOW THIS ONE): symmetric block cipher that uses 128-bit, 192-bit, or 256-bit blocks and a matching encryption key size to encrypt plaintext into ciphertext. standard key for USA.
- Blowfish: symmetric block cipher that uses 64-bit blocks and a variable length encryption key to encrypt plaintext into ciphertext.
- Twofish: provides ability to use 128-bit blocks in its encryption algorithm and uses 128,192,or 256-bit encryption keys.
- Rivest Ciphers (RC4,RC5,RC6)
   - RC4: symmetric stream cipher using a variable key size from 40-2048-bits and is used for ssl and wep.
   - RC5: symmetric block cipher that uses key sizes up to 2048-bits.
   - RC6: meant to be a DES replacement but AES was chosen instead.
## Asymmetric Encryption ##
__def: use a pair of keys, a public key for encryption and a private key for decryption.__<br>
*deals with key giving out problem with symmetric encryption bc well, you dont give out a key!*<br>

__Digital Signature: a hash digest of a mesaage encrypted with the senders private key to let the recipent know that the document was created and sent by the person claiming to have sent it.__<br>

common asym types:
- Diffie-Hellman: used to conduct key exchange and secure key distribution over an unsecure network. used for building vpn tunnels. is still suspectible to man-in-the-middle attacks, so keep that in mind, use some level of authentication. (asymm and vpn tunnel key exchange part of IPSec).
- RSA (Ron, Shamir, Adleman): asymmetic algorithm that relies on the mathematical difficulty of factoring large prime numbers.
- ECC (Elliptic Curve Cryptography): heavily used for mobile devices and is based on the algebraic structure of elliptical curves over finite fields to define its keys. more efficent then RSA.
## Block and Stream Ciphers ##
__Block Cipher: breaks the input into fixed-length blocks of data and performs the encryption on each block. it determines a block size and uses padding if need to take to total data in chunks and encrypt it "block by block".easier to set up and less suspectible to security problems.__<br>

__Stream Cipher: Utilizes a keystream generator to encrypt data bit by bit using a mathematical XOR(one but not both) function to create the ciphertext. well suited for real time data transmission that requires bit by bit encryption whilst the data is being transmitted.__<br>
## Hashing and Increasing Hash Security ##
__def: one-way cryptographic function that takes an input and produces a unique message digest as its output.__<br>

examples:
- MD5: creates a 128-bit hash value that is unique to the input file. can create collision of the same keys for different information, no longer considered secure, SHA family of hashing is a lot better. 
- SHA Family (secure hashing algorithm): 
    - SHA1: creates a 160-bit hash digest which significantly reduces the number of collisions.
    - SHA2: (SHA-224,256,384,512)
    - SHA3: (224-512 bits)(newer)(120 rounds of computation)
- RIPEMD: RACE Integrity Primitive Evaluation Message Digest (160,256,320)
- HMAC: checks integrity of a message and provides a level of authenticity, is paired with other discussed hashing methods.

_INCREASING HASH SECURITY!_<br>
some methods to increase security:
- Key Stretching: technique that is used to mitigate a weaker key by increasing the time need to crack it.
- Salting: adding random data into a one-way cryptographic has to help protect againts password cracking techniques.
- Nonce: stands for "number used once", is a unique, often random number that is added to a password-based authentication process.
- Limiting Failed Login Attempts.
two common attacks:
- pass the hash attack: instead of finding a way to decrypt a hash and use its value for authenticating, passing the hash attacks rely on exploits that pass the hash value directly to the source, eliminating the need to find out the decrypted version of a hash. tools exist like MIMIKATZ and others that do this for you.
- birthday attack: occurs when an attacker is able to send two different messages through a hash algorithm and it results in the same identical hash digest, referred to as a collision.
## Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) ## 
__def: an entire system of hardware, software, policies, procedures, and people that is based on asymmetric encryption.__<br>
think of a service like HTTPS

__Certificate Authority: Issues digitial certificates and keeps the level of trust between all of the certificate authorities around the world.__<br>
__Key Escrow: procces where cryptographic keys are stored in a secure, third-party location, which is effectively an "escrow".__<br>

## Digital Certificates ##
__def: a digitially signed electronic document that binds a public key with the users identity__<br>
X.509 protocol standard <br>

- __Wildcard Certicates:__ allows all of the subdomains to utilize the same public key certificate and have it displayed as valid. (www.google.com,www.google.uk.com...) Easy to manage, cheaper, but one compromise leads to all sub domains be affected.
    - __SAN Field__ (Subject Alternate Name): certificate that specifics what additional domains are under it.
- __Single-sided Certificates:__ only requires the server to be validated.
- __Dual-Sided Certificates:__ user and server must be validated, more secure but utilizes twice the proccessing power on the server-side.
- __Self-Signed Certificates:__ digitial certificate is signed by the same entity whose identity it certifies.
- __Third-Party Certificates:__ digitial certificates that is issued and signed by a trusted certificate authority (CA).
- __Root of Trust:__ each certificate is validated with the concept of a root of trust/chain of trust.
- __Certificate Authority:__ trusted third party that is going to issue the digitial certificate.
- __Registration Authority:__ request identifying information from that user and forwards that certificate request up to the certificate autority to create the digitial certificate.
- __Certificate Signing Request:__ a block of encoded text that contains information about the entity requesting the certificate.
- __Certificate Revocation List (CRL):__ serves as an online list of digitial certificates that the certificate authority has already revoked.
- __Online Certificate Status Protocol:__ allows user to determine the revocation status of any digitial certificate using its serial number.
- __OSCP Stapling:__ allows the certificate holder to get the oscp record from the server at regular intervals.
- __Public Key Pinning:__ allows an HTTPS website to resist impersonation attacks from users who are trying to present fraudulent certificates.
- __Key Escrow Agents:__ occurs when a secure copy of the user's __private__ key is being held.
- __Key Recovery Agents:__ specialized type of software that allows the restoration of a lost or corrupted key to be performed.

//holy list bro

## Blockchain ##
__def: a shared immutable ledger for recording transactions, tracking assets, and building trust.__<br>

Key Terms:
- Public Ledger: a record-keeping system that maintains participants' identities in a secure and anonymous format.
- Smart Contracts: self-executing contracts where the terms of agreement or conditions are written directly into lines of code.
- Permissioned Blockchain: used for business transactions and promotes new levles of trust and transparency using this immutable public ledgers.
- Cryptocurrency 
- Digital Controls
- Supply Chain Management 
## Encryption Tools ##
- TPM (Trusted Platform Module): dedicated microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated cryptographic keys. 
- HSM (Hardware Security Module): physical device that safeguards and manages digitial keys, primarily used for mission-critical situations like finanical transactions.
- Key Management Systems: intregated approach for generating, managing, and distributing cryptographic keys for devices and applications.
- Secure Enclave: co-processor intregated into the main processor of some devices, designed with the sole purpose of ensuring data protection. (DAMN) Used in tech like Apple's Face ID, and ensures that even if the phone itself is compromised, what is inside the enclave is not, even from people inside of Apple or other threat actors.
## Obfuscation ##
- Steganography: derived from the greek words meaning "covered writing", and it is all about concealign a message within another so that its very existence is hidden. used as an EXTRA layer in increasing security.
- Tokenization: transformative technigue in data protection that involves substituting sensitive data elements with non-sensitive equivalents, called tokens, which have no meaningful values (enviroment pulls)
- Data Masking: Protects data by ensuring that it remains recognizable but does not actuallying include sensitive information.
## Cryptographic Attacks ##
__def: techniques and strategies that adversaries employ to exploit vulnerablities in cryptographic systesm with the intent to compromise the confidentiality, intregity, or authenticity of data.__<br>

Topics Focused:<br>
1. Downgrade Attacks
Aims to force a system into using a weaker or older cryptographic standard/protocol instead of what it is currently using. The goal is to then utilize critical vulrenabilities in those older protocols in order to steal data.<br>
*Example: POODLE --> padding oracle on downgraded legacy encryption attack, targeted ssl version 3.0*
2. Collision Attack
Aims to find two different inputs that produce the same hash output. This is an issue when it comes to proving the intregity of said data, as now you are no longer guaranteed that the original data has not been modified.
3. Quantum Computing
Computers that use quantuam mechanics to generate and manipulate quantum bits (qubits) in order to access INSANE proccessing powers. The issues is that compared to classical computers, the speed of a computer is directly related to how fast it can churn out 0's and 1's. Theres a limit with this power, and thats what caused the birth of multi-proccessor computers. The nature of a qubit however allows it both be able to represent 1's and 0's at the SAME time through superposition, which naturally shatters the once thought ceiling of classical computing. This technology is not meant to necessary "replace" the laptop, but instead serve as a tool to do crazy mathmatical computations at speed never seen before. __See the issue?__ this basically destories all current encryption processes like RSA and AES, and challenge all top secret information privacy. <br>
__Post Quantum Cryptography: a new kind of cryptography algorithm that can be implemented using today's classical computers but is also impervios to attacks from future quantum computers. (not easy!)__<br>
quick solve --> increase key size <br>
the REAL solve --> come up with new ways of encryption... <br>
EX: CRYSTALS-Kyber algorithm (symm encryption) <br>
    CRYSTALS-Dilithium algorithm, FALCON, SPHINCS+ (digital signatures) <br>