# risk management #
__def: fundamental process that involves identifying, analyzing, treating, monitoring and reporting risks.__

- identification
- analysis
- treatment

## risk assessment frequency ##

__def: refers to how often the risk assessment process is conducted within an organization.__
1. Ad-Hoc: conducted when __needed__, often in response to a event or situation that has the potential to introduce new risk or change the nature of existing risks.
2. Recurring: conducted at regular interval, 1/2, 1/4, monthly (pentesting, business market testing ...)
3. One-Time: done with specific purpose --> goal in mind for maybe particular project or market release.
4. Continuous: ongoing monitoring and evaluation of risks.

## risk identification ##
__def: recognizing potential risks that could negatively impact an org's ability to operate or achieve its objectives.__<br>
key parts of risk ident:
- recovery time objective (RTO): maximum acceptable length of time that can elapse before the lack of business function begins to severely impact an org's business operations.
- recovery point objective (RPO): maximum acceptable amount of data loss measured in time.
- mean time to repair (MTTR): represents the average time required to repair a failed component or system.
- mean time between failures (MTBF): represents the average time between failures.

in identification --> conduct a BIA
__Business Impact Analysis: evaluating potential effects of disruption to an org's business functions and processes.
## risk register ##
__def:  document detailing identified risks, including their description, impact, likelihood, and mitigation strategies.__<br>
some key areas of a risk log:
* risk description: entails identifying and providing a detailed description of the risk.
* risk impact: potential consequences if the risk materializes. ( low \ med \ high )
* risk likelihood/probability: chance of a particular risk occuring.
* risk outcome: result of a risk, linked to its impact and likelihood.
* risk level/threshold: determined by combine impact and likelihood.
* cost: financial impact on the project if risk occurs.

however, before defining stuff in a org like risk threshold and impact, a risk tolerance/acceptance should be established. <br>
__risk tolerance/acceptance: org's willingness to deal with uncertainty in pursuit of goals.__ <br>
__risk appetite: signifies an org's willingness to embrace or retain specific type and levels of risk to fulfill its strategic goals.__<br>
- expansionary --> more risk
- conservatory --> less risk
- neutral      --> balance
__key risk indicators (KRI's): essential predictive metrics used by an org to signal rising risk in dif parts of an enterprise.__ <br>
__risk owner: person/group responsible for managing the risk.__<br>

## qualitative risk analysis ##
__def: a method of assessing risks based on their potential impact and the likelihood of their occurence.__<br>
                       RISK                                                                                            <br>
                    | HIGH   |}  -->                                                                                   <br>
risk manager  -->   | MEDIUM |}     -->       define the prioritization of risk and what to do for these three levels. <br>
                    | LOw    |}  -->                                                                                   <br>
## quantitative risk analysis ##
__def: objective and numerical evaluation of risks__ <br>
by providing a numerical analysis of a risk, it is a lot more objective and easier for others to understand then lets say a different approach like qualitative risk analysis, where each risk is looked more at an individual level. <br>
## risk management strategies ##
four strategies discussed: <br>
* Transfer: involves shifting risk from org to another party. (INSURANCE!)              *
* Accept: recognizing a risk and choosing to address it when it arises.                 *
* Avoid: strategy of altering plans or approaches to completely elimate a specific risk * 
* Mitigate: implementing measures to decrease the likelihood or impact of a risk.       *
## risk monitoring and reporting ##
__monitoring: invloves tracking identified risks, assessing new risks, executing response plans, and evaluating their effectiveness during a project's lifecycle.__ <br>
__reporting: process of communicating information about risk management activities.__ <br>

# Third Party Vendor Risks #
__def: potential risks/challenges that come with introducing external entities into your system.__<br>

there are risk with incorperating 3rd parties, but it is almost impossible for a business to not have to interact
with other services, so knowing how to deal with is very important, from picking the right vendor, and how to 
continuously monitoring them to make they stay up to standard.

## supply chain risk and attacks ##
1. hardware compromise:
know the origin of your hardware, as starting from there, it is possible to have vulnerabilities in faulty tech
like routers, switchs, or end-user PC's.
2. software compromise:
it is just as likely for compromise to come from software instead, and it is important to only use software from
trusted sources, as well as keeping them up to date, and knowing about vulnerabilities that effect that software.
3. MSP's (Managed Service Provider):
know how they evaluate what is good, and if it is standard with industry.

__supply chain attack: attack that involves targeting a weaker link in the supply chain to gain access to the primary.__<br>
very common and SMART way for attackers to reach more secure networks. think about it, always try to attack the WEAKEST link.

## vendor assessment ##
__def: process that orgs implement to evaluate the security/reliability of external services__<br>
1. make sure you have the righ to audit clause in your contract with vendor (perform assessments).
2. perform a penetration test. their risk can become yours.
3. make sure they do their own audits / internal auditting.
4. OR independent assessment (mostly better)
5. analyse their supply chain.

*you should be looking for the vendors, they shouldnt be coming to you!*

## contracts and agreements ##
- basic contract: versatile, establishes a relationship between two parties. <br>
- SLA (service level agreement): meant to establish a standard of service a client will expect. <br>
- MOA (memorandum of agreement): defines responsibilities for roles of involved parties. DIFFERENT THEN MOU <br>
- MOU (memorandum of understanding): less binding, more of a declaration of mutual intent. <br>
- MSA (master service agreement): blanket agreement for covering general terms between party across MULTIPLE transactions. <br>
- SOW (statement of work): used for specifiying details for a particular project. <br>
- NDA (non-disclosure agreement): commitment to privacy that ensures that any sensitive information shared during negotiations remains confidential. <br>
- BPA (business partnership agreement): document that goes beyond a simple contract when two entities pool/merge resources for mutual benefit. <br>

