# risk management #
__def: fundamental process that involves identifying, analyzing, treating, monitoring and reporting risks.__

- identification
- analysis
- treatment

## risk assessment frequency ##

__def: refers to how often the risk assessment process is conducted within an organization.__
1. Ad-Hoc: conducted when __needed__, often in response to a event or situation that has the potential to introduce new risk or change the nature of existing risks.
2. Recurring: conducted at regular interval, 1/2, 1/4, monthly (pentesting, business market testing ...)
3. One-Time: done with specific purpose --> goal in mind for maybe particular project or market release.
4. Continuous: ongoing monitoring and evaluation of risks.

## risk identification ##
__def: recognizing potential risks that could negatively impact an org's ability to operate or achieve its objectives.__<br>
key parts of risk ident:
- recovery time objective (RTO): maximum acceptable length of time that can elapse before the lack of business function begins to severely impact an org's business operations.
- recovery point objective (RPO): maximum acceptable amount of data loss measured in time.
- mean time to repair (MTTR): represents the average time required to repair a failed component or system.
- mean time between failures (MTBF): represents the average time between failures.

in identification --> conduct a BIA
__Business Impact Analysis: evaluating potential effects of disruption to an org's business functions and processes.
## risk register ##
__def:  document detailing identified risks, including their description, impact, likelihood, and mitigation strategies.__<br>
some key areas of a risk log:
* risk description: entails identifying and providing a detailed description of the risk.
* risk impact: potential consequences if the risk materializes. ( low \ med \ high )
* risk likelihood/probability: chance of a particular risk occuring.
* risk outcome: result of a risk, linked to its impact and likelihood.
* risk level/threshold: determined by combine impact and likelihood.
* cost: financial impact on the project if risk occurs.

however, before defining stuff in a org like risk threshold and impact, a risk tolerance/acceptance should be established. <br>
__risk tolerance/acceptance: org's willingness to deal with uncertainty in pursuit of goals.__ <br>
__risk appetite: signifies an org's willingness to embrace or retain specific type and levels of risk to fulfill its strategic goals.__<br>
- expansionary --> more risk
- conservatory --> less risk
- neutral      --> balance
__key risk indicators (KRI's): essential predictive metrics used by an org to signal rising risk in dif parts of an enterprise.__ <br>
__risk owner: person/group responsible for managing the risk.__<br>

## qualitative risk analysis ##
__def: a method of assessing risks based on their potential impact and the likelihood of their occurence.__<br>
                       RISK                                                                                            <br>
                    | HIGH   |}  -->                                                                                   <br>
risk manager  -->   | MEDIUM |}     -->       define the prioritization of risk and what to do for these three levels. <br>
                    | LOw    |}  -->                                                                                   <br>
## quantitative risk analysis ##
__def: objective and numerical evaluation of risks__ <br>
by providing a numerical analysis of a risk, it is a lot more objective and easier for others to understand then lets say a different approach like qualitative risk analysis, where each risk is looked more at an individual level. <br>
## risk management strategies ##
four strategies discussed: <br>
* Transfer: involves shifting risk from org to another party. (INSURANCE!)              *
* Accept: recognizing a risk and choosing to address it when it arises.                 *
* Avoid: strategy of altering plans or approaches to completely elimate a specific risk * 
* Mitigate: implementing measures to decrease the likelihood or impact of a risk.       *
## risk monitoring and reporting ##
__monitoring: invloves tracking identified risks, assessing new risks, executing response plans, and evaluating their effectiveness during a project's lifecycle.__ <br>
__reporting: process of communicating information about risk management activities.__ <br>

# Third Party Vendor Risks #