# Notes For Networks #
_refreshers for classes like IT120 and IT420!_

## OSI Model ##
1. Physical Layer
--> transport of 1's and 0's to different systems (cables, hubs, ...) <br>
2. Data Link Layer
--> transmission between communications on a local network (ethernet, switches, MAC addresses ...) <br>
3. Network Layer
--> transmission of IP packets through the internet through logical addressing (IP addresses, destination, source, routers ... ) <br>
4. Transport Layer
--> communication of data through ports and specific defined protocals (TCP / UDP) <br>
5. Session Layer
--> establishment of connections to serivces through sessions (HTTP,DNS,RDP ...) <br>
6. Presentation Layer
--> presentation of data on the end of the user in a format that the application can view. <br>
7. Application Layer
--> API's and specific application tools in order to present data. <br>

_NIC / Network Interface Card:_ card that allows network communication, either ethernet or wireless. <br>
_MTU / Maximun Transmission Unit:_ usually the default is 1500 bytes. <br>
_MAC Address:_ physical address identifying a computer. 12 characters long in hexademical == 48 bits. <br>
_CRC / Cyclic Redundency Check:_ verifies that packet did not lose data in transmission. <br>

## TCP/IP Basics ##
_UDP_ --> fast, connectionless data transmission
_TCP_ --> metered connection, attempted guarenteed data transmission
_ICMP_ --> internet control message protocol

__IP Addresses__ --> 32 bit address, four groups of eight. <br>

ex: 192.168.1.0/24 <br>
11000000.101000100.00000001.00000000 <br>

_ARP Protocol:_ allows the transmission of MAC address to networking devices like switches and multi-layer routers that allows these devices to map out logical and physical addresses on the network in order to maintain local network communications. <br>
### TCP Three Way Handshake ###
SYN --> ACK    <br> 
ACK <-- ACK    <br>
.....          <br>
FIN --> ACK    <br>
### Subnetting ###
__Subnet:__ Logical seperation of devices sharing a physical network device. <br>

__Network ID | Host ID__ <br>
_192.168.1_     _.2_    /24 <br>

number of devices you can have on subnet is == number of bits remaining - 2  ==  2^n - 2. <br>
- one for broadcast address, one for network address

_Variable Length Subnet:_ dividing and partitioning subnets in variable lengths to truly utilize IP addressing space. <br>
_Network Address Translation:_ converts private network address into public facing IP addresses. <br>

### CIDR / Classful Addressing ###
__Class A__ --> /8 subnet <br>
__Class B__ --> /16 subnet <br>
__Class C__ --> /24 subnet <br>

_CIDR_ <br>
subnet mask will determine the size of the partitioned network. <br>

/24 -> /25 will create two subnets <br>
       /26 will create four ... <br>

### Dynamic v Static Addressing ###
__Static__ = manual inputted addressing <br>
__DHCP__ = Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol <br>
- server and client are on different port numbers

discover --> offer --> request --> acknowledgement <br>
DCHP is done on 68/67 ports, and are UDP <br>

Special IP's (None of these are Public IPs):
- 192.168.x.x
- 10.x.x.x
- 172.16.x.x <br>

Loopback Address:
- 127.0.0.1
- ::1 (IPv6) <br>

APIPA Address (Good to know for troubleshooting):
- 169.254.x.x <br>

Multicast:
- 224.x.x.x

Anycast, Multicast, Broadcast, Unicast ... <br>

### DNS Domain Name Service ###
DNS does the coversion of IP address into human readable logical domain names. <br>

hostname.secondarydomain.topleveldomain <br>
www.google.com <br>

_Reverse Lookup Zone:_ takes domain name to ip address, to write one, you MUST write the ip address backwards!!! <br>

### IPv6 ###
128 v 32 bit addressing, in hexademical <br>

- fe80:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:1234
- fe80::1234
- fe80:0000:1100:0000:0000:0000:0000:1234
- fe80:0:1100::1234

_link-local:_ auto generated by ivp6 host, sudo fused with your MAC address for creation <br>
_internet:_ given by router <br>

fe80 --> represents link-local addresses <br>
As of now, IPv6 is mostly used for mobile devices, as IPv4 is still majority used in enterprise environments.

IPv6 is good for speed because of aggreation of ip adddress into root clusters, which makes assigning and utilizing addresses faster for the device. <br>